Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Upgrade! Got a new TiLite titanium chair with ergo seating. For anyone getting a new manual chair anytime soon check it out. Splurged on the color package and the tattoo engraving.,Going from my quickie to this is literally life changing. The ergo seating helps with balance in the chair so much. It’s literally like I went from a mini van to a sports car.  With ergo seating the seat bar is bent.Upgrade! Got a new TiLite titanium chair with ergo seating. For anyone getting a new manual chair anytime soon check it out. Splurged on the color package and the tattoo engraving.,I'm on my 1st chair (Quickie Helium) and this looks cool as all hell. Will keep TiLite in mind for the future.Upgrade! Got a new TiLite titanium chair with ergo seating. For anyone getting a new manual chair anytime soon check it out. Splurged on the color package and the tattoo engraving.,That’s a slick looking chair! Love the blue spokes!Upgrade! Got a new TiLite titanium chair with ergo seating. For anyone getting a new manual chair anytime soon check it out. Splurged on the color package and the tattoo engraving.,Sweet ride. Cool color combo. Love my ZRA,We went with the dual tube cuz I literally snapped my quickie frame in half above the caster.Upgrade! Got a new TiLite titanium chair with ergo seating. For anyone getting a new manual chair anytime soon check it out. Splurged on the color package and the tattoo engraving.,This is a very nice looking ride. The difference a quality char makes is mind-blowing.Upgrade! Got a new TiLite titanium chair with ergo seating. For anyone getting a new manual chair anytime soon check it out. Splurged on the color package and the tattoo engraving.,Man, I wish I could afford some sort of chair other than what Medicade has given me, that thing hurts my back and constantly is breaking because the rubber comes off of the wheel. I'm Jelly! That looks so amazing! Enjoy your  new ride!Upgrade! Got a new TiLite titanium chair with ergo seating. For anyone getting a new manual chair anytime soon check it out. Splurged on the color package and the tattoo engraving.,Sweet ride, here’s my latest set of wheels

https://imgur.com/gallery/1POgYPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Has anyone else been treated by doctors like your injury is no big deal and the damage sustained while waiting for a diagnosis was just par for the course?,C1 C5/6 incomplete nontraumatic and for sure, I think for my neuro its about not catastrophsing the injury and freaking me out. I wasn't even told I was up at C1 until I "made sufficent progress towards stability" and was told "high spinal cord injury" for a long time. Getting told that was kinda nuts, as I'd previously thought C2 from people not telling me exactly where and my own research.

I'm not sure how typical my experience is though, as my first year being quad is also covid year so.,How are you doing? I'm a similar situation as you, C2 C5/6. My first year being a quad is also during covid. Have you had any recovery?Has anyone else been treated by doctors like your injury is no big deal and the damage sustained while waiting for a diagnosis was just par for the course?,C5/6 incomplete with a skull fracture. I had similar situation to the earlier comment. 16yrs old at the of injury. Taken to kids hospital but too old to be treated. Taken to another to have scans. Taken to another to spend time on a ward before I was transported to a spinal care ward 70 miles away where I was given ALOT better treatment. I can’t remember which of the first 2 hospitals it was but I spent the night in agony as my feet had severe pins and needle and I just needed them rubbed so the pain went away. Was ignored till my parents arrived in the morning, think the nurse must’ve quit after the telling off my mum gave herHas anyone else been treated by doctors like your injury is no big deal and the damage sustained while waiting for a diagnosis was just par for the course?,I wish I would have waited. I had an accident in a country with mediocre health care. I was operated on by 'best spinal surgeon' in the country. She told my family that I would have no nerve damage whatsoever. On the plane back home I started losing consciousness and had to make an emergency landing. The did a CT scan and there were pieces of bone in my spinal cord that were missed by the surgeon. Had to stay at the hospital over the weekend because there was no weekend transport possible... Then when I got to the hospital in my home country, I was rushed into surgery to remove the rest. Pieces of bone stuck in my spinal cord for 5 days longer than needed.Has anyone else been treated by doctors like your injury is no big deal and the damage sustained while waiting for a diagnosis was just par for the course?,D4, D5 incomplete with a skull fracture. Was taken to a hospital first, then had to go to another one because the surgeon at the wasn't available for a day.

At the second hospital skull fracture was immediately taken care of but my spine only got operated on after 2 days (I think). I have no memory of the accident and many days after. Got all this from family members. I'm from India btw...,I'm not familiar with D as a vertebrae level. Is that cervical/neck?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Spinal Cord Injury: Facts And Statistics You Should Know,Sounds right, wish I was in the majority that only had an incomplete injury. Also my first year cost after my accident was around $750k which is absolutely absurd.,You say "only an incomplete", yet you can have an incomplete damage by definition and be just as bad off as someone with a complete injury. Just saying :)Spinal Cord Injury: Facts And Statistics You Should Know,I was only compensated with 50k,Same-ish here, at least in the same order of magnitude. Should we be speaking with personal injury attorneys?Spinal Cord Injury: Facts And Statistics You Should Know,So tell me why I was denied disability twice. I'm getting ready for my 3rd round with them. My first surgery to correct issues with arthritis left me unable to walk for about 5 months in 2013. I regained my ability to walk but I still have issues from the waist down. Everything from numbness to severe pain. They just went back in 3 months ago because my new doctor diagnosed me with kyphosis. He cleaned out scar tissue and fixed a bulging disc where I had my first surgery and installed 2 rods to support a spinal fusion. I had a CT scan today because I was still in a lot of pain and they found 2 loose screws in my L2 vertebra. 

I've been saved from completely losing my ability to walk twice and I'm grateful that the doctors were able to do that for me. But screw the government for telling me that someone would hire me in my condition. I have to much work experience which means there are a lot of jobs they seem to think I can do. I've stopped typing this out 3 times so far to adjust myself because I'm in pain. I can't even fall asleep without taking a bunch of pills. Spinal injuries are being treated just like mental health in a lot of cases. I have issues with both and neither of them get the attention they need.Spinal Cord Injury: Facts And Statistics You Should Know,I didn’t even have a traumatic injury, and spent a total of exactly 11 days in the hospital spinal unit after surgery due to complications. That number just hit me personally.,You got this my friend. It's only a number now. A distant memory. I spent 4 days in ICU after my reconstructive surgery and another 7 in step down before a month in the ward and then 5 months at in patient rehab. Those first 11 days were definitely wild but looking at how far I've come.. Cant discount anything that's happened.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Long shot torso stability question,Sounds like it could be scoliosis. Sometimes a brace can help, but they can also be a pain.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
C3-C7 Spine Tumor,It sounds like you may have arachnoiditis- search doctor Forest Tennant on google.,That word is making me think of a deformed spider.C3-C7 Spine Tumor,Everyone I know who has an incomplete injury has daily pain. Mind bending to be sure, myself included. My friends with complete injuries have spasms but don’t feel it. I guess what I’m getting at is anyway you slice it there are a whole lot of negative issues to deal with. But I try to stay positive or rather more positive by understanding that no matter how bad you got it, someone has it way worse. So do what you can to deal with it then put a little more mental work in and finish it through. It’s NOT easy but the first hurdle of being alive is behind you. You’ll not always be able to be out in front of the pain or your situation but like any loss in your life it’ll get a little easier as you go. Be safe and get better. CheersPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Colostomy complications need advice,Is her colostomy productive ( putting out stool)? I’d recommend some radiology studies to make sure she doesn’t have a blockage from twisting or adhesions/scar tissue. Since the colostomy is temporally related to her AD, I’d investigate that first.,Thank you! She has had no output since yesterday morning. She is post surgery two weeks. I really appreciate your response.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Exercise in water?,It helped me when I was in hospital. The resistance of the water is a good starting point. As it’s buoyant and if you fall you just float,Okay, that's good to know. Thank you :)Exercise in water?,I saw significant gains from exercising in water.   There are a wide range of activities, techniques and underwater equipment that can be performed/used that are super helpful.,That's great to know. Thank you :)Exercise in water?,Even when I was in rehab 15 years ago we did PT in the pool.  They had water dumbbells that were basically just floaty dumbbells.  Even just swimming with your arms  is good exercise with low impact on stuff like your rotator cuffs etc... also it was a nice change from the monotony of the rehab gym lolPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Is stretching a non-functioning limb important?,Absolutely! I’m a t5 Para and For me stretching helps both spasms and nerve pain a ton. Another good way that stretches your heel cord/Achilles etc is the standing frame. Which is also good for circulation and clot prevention. 
I get on the floor and stretch every other day or so.  Both butterfly stretches and my Achilles/calf. Careful with butterfly stretches I tire my groin once pushing to hard lol. Which would be easy not having stretches them in years.Is stretching a non-functioning limb important?,Yes! His OT/PT should’ve recommended this after the injury! I’d definitely recommend he see one ASAP, as the years of not stretching can lead to things like clots or tendon tightness that requires surgery. When I stretch my legs even though I’m no longer truly paralyzed anymore, they shake violently because they’re so used to not being used much. It’s a sign that my husband and I aren’t doing enough to stretch them/move around.,Thank you! He is a veteran and from what I've seen of his care it hasn't been the best, but also he doesn't always advocate for himself. I had a hard time understanding google whether it meant SCI who were working towards mobility vs don't have mobility. Getting other's input will probably do a lot towards getting him to stretch.Is stretching a non-functioning limb important?,Also if you want the perspective of helping here is one. Gives step by step instructions. 
Although I’m an advocate for doing everything you can yourself. 

https://www.sportsrec.com/491527-stretching-exercises-for-paraplegic-spasms.html

IIs stretching a non-functioning limb important?,Absolutely: as someone who didn't do this for several decades (you know how it is with kids and being lazy), your joints start locking up because the tendons get super tight. My hips and knees can't extend beyond ~120 degrees anymore, and this is after having gotten surgery once already as a kid for the same issue :/Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Winter footwear ideas/recs,https://www.bogsfootwear.ca/shop/index.html?gclid=CjwKCAiAqJn9BRB0EiwAJ1SztVGWYa9QHFRUSlthsckb2H1ig6Pim2abrvgQ2eX5fSYzmHNeLjGfAxoC3eEQAvD_BwE 

I recommend these ... these are called bogs! They are freaking amazing ... no zippers ... no laces ... just two handles and slide! They are tall and neoprene insulated ... neoprene is what scuba divers use to keep their bodies warm in water ... so how it works is it traps your temperature and does not release it!! Freaking brilliant!!! They are tall so stuff your pants inside and you’re good to go! They are rated to -40 Degree weather. I have had the same pair for three years And they still look new .. they are amazing and resilient! 😃😀,I like the style. You have flaccid legs/feet and are able to get them into these boots easily?Winter footwear ideas/recs,Have you looked at Chacos?  I just got a fleece-lined pair of boots there that I like.Winter footwear ideas/recs,I recommend the high top vans mountain sneaker. They’re easy to throw on and will keep your feet toasty and stylish. They’re called the Vans Ultrarange Hi top.  Get them a size or two bigger.,I use high top vans all the time - mountain sneaker is probably gonna be my go-to this winter.Winter footwear ideas/recs,Slip-on running shoes would perfect. They are very flexible and it takes seconds to put them on without twisting your toes. I've stopped wearing my other footwear since I got them. 

Here's a link to something that looks similar to mine, https://www.skechers.com/men/shoes/elite-flex---karnell/232048.htmlWinter footwear ideas/recs,My feet changed after years of sitting and I have a hard time putting on my Doc Marten Mary Jane shoes. They're just for special occasion now. I wear converse all the time now because they open wider and just fit my foot better. I wear over the knee or thigh high socks in the winter for warmth. I do live in California and it doesn't get super cold. I've also taken butchers broom in the past, it is an herb that is supposed to encourage blood flow in the lower extremities so that might be a consideration. If your feet haven't changed and you love your Docs maybe get a size too big for the winter and invest in some thick ass socks?Winter footwear ideas/recs,I went through SO many shoes until I got my leg braces, just trying to find a pair that I could easily put on and off. I’m at S1, so I have full use of my arms, but lacing and unlacing shoes/boots gets old. My mother in law gave me a pair of her old winter boots that she purposely bought like 6 sizes too big so she could wear fluffy socks inside. Turns out that leg braces or not, I can get into those things easy, and they have a drawstring at the top that I just pull to keep them on. For less cold days, I actually bought these short suede winter boots from Walmart for like $10, and they work! I just made sure to but a size 11, even though I’m a size 9.5 to accommodate for when I wear my braces.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Baclofen users: Do you get anxious if you miss a dose or two?,Yes for sure...If myself or my wife miss our nightly dose (we don’t take high amounts 20mg for me 40 for her) we get what we describe as the gitters. Definitely an anxious internal shaky feeling which doesn’t allow us to sleep. I’ve been on baclofen for 20+ years started at a higher dose but as the years went on the spasms got less so I weaned myself down. Even on 20mg  I get those anxious times when I miss one dose.,Yes! I’m on 20mg and feel exactly the same. It’s like impending sense of doom, but with anxiety emotions instead. Not fun. So glad I’m not alone though. 

Cannabis fixes my regular anxiety, but it only amplifies baclofen based anxiety. A real kicker to figure that one out the hard way.Baclofen users: Do you get anxious if you miss a dose or two?,It took the baclofen a few weeks before it finally started working for me but I definitely feel a noticeable difference in anxiety and am more prone to spasms when the nurses are late with my meds.,I feel so relieved that it’s not in my head. It’s distinctly with baclofen. I don’t remember if I took my baclofen last night, and I forgot this morning. By noon time I was feeling anxiety I couldn’t resolve. I feel better about an hour since taking the baclofen (the anxiety resolved when the spasms did too). 

I wish I could control my spasms without withdrawal side effects. :(Baclofen users: Do you get anxious if you miss a dose or two?,I was taking a near lethal does of baclofen daily. I kicked it though. I don't know how you guys do it.,What do you mean by this? I’m glad you kicked the habit. I’m more ashamed that I am on baclofen daily than I am to be on cannabis daily. 

It’s a dirty habit that makes me feel like I’m craving some hardcore shit of stuff I don’t even like. Valium is more recreational to me if we are being honest. 

Sorry, I got sidetracked. Anyways, how’d you get off it? Thankfully I’m only on 40mg total daily but it still sucks.Baclofen users: Do you get anxious if you miss a dose or two?,Hmm, haven't really missed any doses yet, maybe once (take every 8 hours) but never noticed anxiety. Did notice a huge difference in my spasms though, so that lead to me never missing doses.Baclofen users: Do you get anxious if you miss a dose or two?,I stopped taking baclofen since it doesn’t work on me. I was od’ing over the summer with 120mg doses at once because my spasms were so frustrating and throwing me out of my chair. I now take CBD and THC with 2 pills of Zanaflex at night. THC causes me lots of anxiety so I can only have max 5mg — but it doesn’t help with my spasms the day over which is nice. I can never keep my right leg straight or it’ll spasms immediately. So I’m always cross legged. I might get the baclofen pump since my spasms are so bad and interfere with my daily life and work focus.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
So incredibly stumped with these two quiz questions. I’m turning to the internet as my last hope!,**IS ANYBODY HERE A PLUMBER?**,No but I can use a plunger pretty well from a seated position.So incredibly stumped with these two quiz questions. I’m turning to the internet as my last hope!,Question 1:

You obviously know that different parts of the spinal cord carry different 'services' so we are looking for which part of the cord carries motor services to the right side (weakness in R leg) and which part carries pain and temperature from the left side (pain and temp L leg), but accepting that the part that carries vibration / proprioception is apparently unaffected.

This image you may have seen before: https://imgur.com/TTXjihi

Anterior cord is at the bottom of this image, so we are looking for the part of the cord that carries motor on one side and part of the cord that carries pain and temp on the other.  Anterior right side and lateral for the left seems correct to me.  Proprioception being intact would tend to exclude a posterior lesion.,An odd question but do you think pain from the left side it's transmitted autonomically to the right?So incredibly stumped with these two quiz questions. I’m turning to the internet as my last hope!,Question 2:

Pain and temperature sensation are part of the afferent neurological pathways and are closest to the ventral horn in the spinal cord.  See previous image.

I would select ventral horn bilaterally for this.

*Edit and I would probably be wrong.  See other comments.,Ventral cord would knock out the specific level that’s affected and everything inferior to that. This seems to be just localized to the waist. I’m thinking it’s more DRG. Thoughts?So incredibly stumped with these two quiz questions. I’m turning to the internet as my last hope!,1.	I feel like there’s no perfect answer to the first question if I had to pick the best answer it’s 17C. it’s Brown Sequard syndrome with sparing of the dorsal columns. The R leg weakness (R corticospinal tract), the L temperature and pain sensation impairment (L spinothalamic tract which decusates/ crosses to the other side R side of the spinal cord before innervating the peripheral limb). Thus the lesion is in the R hemicord but spares the posterior aspect.
https://i.imgur.com/4QuuSlz.jpg
2.	21B - this is dermatomal sensation loss, sensory comes from dorsal root ganglion https://i.imgur.com/2rDBpCZ.jpgPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Legs aching?,Man that sux, I'm not a complete so can really give you a good comparison. But i suspect your right about it being nerve pain related. Hope it gets better soon. Maybe try shifting positions ?,I've been shifting and stretching all day, I think it's related to spasticity and I'm just going to have to get a baclofen pump soon.Legs aching?,sounds kinda like nerve pain to meLegs aching?,I don't know you or what solution is best, but I have to suggest this first. 

Start doing a daily stretching routine. 30 mins. On the floor. Every day. 
Do that for a month and see how you feel.Legs aching?,How long have you been injured? I’m incomplete and experience leg pain from poor circulation, so maybe that could have something to do with it? Not trying to be offensive, because I have no idea how different your sensation is, but just a suggestion… Hope you feel better, though.,It's been about 2 and a half years, it might be circulation but I'm not sure.Legs aching?,I have similar sensations. Not a lot I can do about it - I felt it was at its worst early on (presumably muscle pain from atrophy?). Perhaps try stretching, massage, cold/hot water, and other experiments to see what works.Legs aching?,Sucks dude. I get that when my seat gel needs adjusting, I've been sitting too long, or my sciatic nerve is unhappy. I always check my seat for hard spots first, with some pressure relief dips. If it's still there, I then lay down for 30 minutes or a nap (I just schedule this at 2pm everyday now)Legs aching?,Hey! T5/6 complete here, 12 years out. I also have this feeling and it's gotten worse over the past year. Sometimes my thigh feels like it's being twisted underneath my skin. 

Recently, my neurologist started me on pregabalin and it's helped a lot. They've also suggested an Open Rhizotomy. 

It's really annoying and I'm sorry you're going through this too,Thanks, it seems to be pretty much gone today. I was on pregabalin and gabapentin but they made it incredibly hard to think so I had to stop. I think I've narrowed it down to poor circulation/legs being cold or some kind of irritation along the injury line that mimics the pain.Legs aching?,T5 complete here I get this same exact thing. Feels like a wicked Charlie horse..... I’m pretty sure its just nerve pain. Happens frequently.Legs aching?,Oh yeah I have constantly it fucking blows lmao - good luck i haven't found anything to deal with itLegs aching?,It sounds like nerve pain to me. When I take CBD/THC my legs are on fire for a few hours. I was complete inpatient for a five months before transitioning and what you described sounds like a mix between nerve pain and maybe some areas of partial preservation firing back towards your brain 🧠Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Just had my surgery for cervical myelopathy,Ah, that reminds me of my operation. I was told I spent most of the 8 hours in a sitting, forward leaning position, and I was unable to leave the hospital bed due to muscle pain.

Warm baths helped, but the healing process first needs to allow for that.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Question about Bladder Medication and/or Condom Catheters,Has your so been to a urologist? I mean if it's been three years then things can change and a urinalysis and perhaps a cystoscopy would be beneficial for urinary tract health. 

There could be a stone? Leakage means higher pressure and constant high pressure or high pressure in general can cause problems further down the road.,Yeah, getting urodynamics would be key.,His last visit was right before the virus shut everything down. Unfortunately, his insurance cut their contract with his urologist at the same time. That’s also when the spasms started. (Bad timing, I know)

I think I’m going to remove the word leakage from the main post.. He doesn’t have issues with dribbling. His bladder will visibly swell up, he gets the sudden urge to pee, and I have about 45 seconds to get a handheld urinal in place before his bladder empties. If we cath right after, there’s usually between 0-100ml left inside. 

We’re making an appointment someplace new this week. Just want to see if anyone has been in the same boat and if there’s anything we should be asking the new urologist that we haven’t thought of yet. 

Thank you, we’ll definitely ask about a cystoscopy.Question about Bladder Medication and/or Condom Catheters,I recommend talking to a urologist about the medication oxybutynin. I take 15mg per day (10mg morning, 5mg night) and no longer have problems with bladder spasms.

Per [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxybutynin):

Oxybutynin, sold under the brand name Ditropan, is a medication used to treat overactive bladder. In 2017, it was the 100th most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than seven million prescriptions.,This is what I'd recommend and this is very popular in the UK. If not, they are on Tolterodine XL.,**Oxybutynin**

Oxybutynin, sold as under the brand names Ditropan among others, is a medication used to treat overactive bladder. It works similar to tolterodine. While used for bed wetting in children, evidence to support this use is poor.Question about Bladder Medication and/or Condom Catheters,Ok I have a lot of experience with this. 

So first of all the primary purpose of a condom catheter is for a individual who would not be intermittently cathing. You are probably right that if your SO was applying and removing one say 5 times a day skin would break down. I used condom caths for the majority of the day for around 4 years, I stopped because in the last year I was experiencing UTI’s 2-3 times a month. 

I saw a urologist who recommended medication but it was not effective for me but do know some who have benefited greatly from medication. I’m not sure I understand what you mean by “natural flushing”. 

My recommendation is Botox injections in the bladder. This has been a miracle cure for me, I used to have “leaks” multiple times a day but now I never have any and  I can go long hours without cathing. Again my urologist recommended this to me after medication wasn’t successful.,Thanks for the insight about condom caths, it answered a lot of questions for us.

We’re going to give medication a shot. u/Attaboy3 mentioned that we shouldn’t have issues if he decides to come off of them during a future UTI. 

He’s had a few major (fever, chills, etc.) UTI’s since his injury and was only taking antibiotics if they were bad (as advised by his doctors), but we’ve been warned about the damage antibiotics can do to the body if you take them too often. He got two of them back to back right as the pandemic flared up, and “peed” for the first time while we were trying to decide whether this was ER-worthy. 

I don’t know how else to put it, but his body responded really well to the “natural flushing” of his urethra. He doesn’t have urethral pain anymore and no major UTI’s since it started happening. It kinda makes sense to us, and this is just a guess, that if the infection is in the urethra, it will never have a chance to heal if the only thing that touches it is a catheter pushing on it. Peeing is usually the body’s first response to a UTI. Could be wrong though!Question about Bladder Medication and/or Condom Catheters,I am a T-6 incomplete Asia A/B and I use condom catheters every night with a bag as I can’t hold my bladder past ~250/300ml. During the day I find myself selfcathing every 3-4 hours as accidents can be common for me. I would say as long as you use the protective skin wipes with the condom catheter (acts as a barrier between the condom and the skin to prevent any damage) and don’t keep the condom catheter on for more than 8-10 hours at a time, letting the skin breathe during the day, you should be completely fine. I personally don’t like the idea of Botox just yet as I don’t want to do anything permanent to my body with the hope that my recovery will keep gradually improving. 

Worst case scenario, you do have some minor irritation in the skin, there are protective barrier/healing creams that are extremely helpful in taking care of it/ making sure it doesn’t get worse. Hope that helps answer your question. Best of luck to you and your boyfriend!,Do you think it would be possible to sleep on your stomach with a condom catheter?

Edit: Also thank you for the insight. This is kind of the system we could see us following if we decide to go the condom catheter-route. We feel the same way about Botox and supra pubic, wanting to explore less invasive options first.Question about Bladder Medication and/or Condom Catheters,Aside for recommending oxybutynin/tolterodine, Botox did nothing for me. Has he considered a suprapubic catheter? I don't suffer from UTIs, perhaps I'm lucky.,We’ve thought about it, but we’ve heard that people can’t sleep on their bellies with them. Something about how it’s difficult to position and drain.  Not sure if that’s true for everyone?
The only way he can get a good night’s rest is on his stomach, and he’s afraid a supra could compromise that.Question about Bladder Medication and/or Condom Catheters,Definitely going to avoid Botox. He has a few friends with the same build and injury who had it done. Both of them had issues where it spread to the rest of their muscles and they couldn’t transfer anymore. One of them had to stop driving for a few months until it wore off enough :-/,That sounds extremely concerning… it shouldn't spread that much at all. It's a very localised injection normally. Are they talking about bladder Botox ?Question about Bladder Medication and/or Condom Catheters,Def didn’t  have time to read all the posts. So sry if I said something that’s been said lol. I had a problem with UTIs for a long time.  Till I had a brilliant general pract. Doc that I was seeing at the time put me on a daily sulfamethoxazole. I’ve gone 2 years between UTIs at times now.,Woah, daily antibiotics?? That’s wild!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Incomplete SCI: 4 months ago. T2 T3 fracture T4 burst fracture, broke my hip in 3 places including and open book fracture, dislocated my right knee tearing my acl and pcl all from some guy illegally merging onto oncoming traffic while I was riding my motorcycle. Today I can walk with crutches AMA,Damn son you sound just like me. A little over 2 years ago I was riding my motorcycle and decided to take the intestate home, just joyrideing at night. Well the lady in front of me got confused as to what exit to take so she slammed on her breaks and I hit her. I had a sci, all my ribs were cracked or broken, bladder ruptured and my pelvis broke in three places. I couldn't do rehab for several months due to an external fixator holding my pelvis together. I haven't regained anything yet so it's not likely to happen sadly but good on you for getting back up.,Yea man I had an external fixatir on my leg for two months shit sucks man.Incomplete SCI: 4 months ago. T2 T3 fracture T4 burst fracture, broke my hip in 3 places including and open book fracture, dislocated my right knee tearing my acl and pcl all from some guy illegally merging onto oncoming traffic while I was riding my motorcycle. Today I can walk with crutches AMA,What was your return like? What did you get back first? What was/is your rehab like?,First thing that came back lower body was my quads  and my left leg came back pretty fast. I was in inpatient rehab for like 3 almost 4 monthsIncomplete SCI: 4 months ago. T2 T3 fracture T4 burst fracture, broke my hip in 3 places including and open book fracture, dislocated my right knee tearing my acl and pcl all from some guy illegally merging onto oncoming traffic while I was riding my motorcycle. Today I can walk with crutches AMA,Motorcycle injuries suck. I hope your recovery works out well. Burst fractures hurt like a bitch and it's a long road back. Keep at it, keep up your physio and, most importantly of all, take that fucker that hit you for everything you can get. Best of luck, man!,Thanks bro. My back hurts almost all day, no hip pain shockinglyIncomplete SCI: 4 months ago. T2 T3 fracture T4 burst fracture, broke my hip in 3 places including and open book fracture, dislocated my right knee tearing my acl and pcl all from some guy illegally merging onto oncoming traffic while I was riding my motorcycle. Today I can walk with crutches AMA,What kind of bike where you riding?,Ninja 300Incomplete SCI: 4 months ago. T2 T3 fracture T4 burst fracture, broke my hip in 3 places including and open book fracture, dislocated my right knee tearing my acl and pcl all from some guy illegally merging onto oncoming traffic while I was riding my motorcycle. Today I can walk with crutches AMA,Congratulations recovering so quickly. Do you have any anger issues towards the other driver? Has your attitude helped or hindered your recovery?,No anger whatsoever toward the driver. I think a positive attitude helps alot cause it allows you to go harder during therapyIncomplete SCI: 4 months ago. T2 T3 fracture T4 burst fracture, broke my hip in 3 places including and open book fracture, dislocated my right knee tearing my acl and pcl all from some guy illegally merging onto oncoming traffic while I was riding my motorcycle. Today I can walk with crutches AMA,Congrats and keep killing it from a fellow incomplete sci patient,Fa sho man, I may be disabled but I ain't no quitterIncomplete SCI: 4 months ago. T2 T3 fracture T4 burst fracture, broke my hip in 3 places including and open book fracture, dislocated my right knee tearing my acl and pcl all from some guy illegally merging onto oncoming traffic while I was riding my motorcycle. Today I can walk with crutches AMA,Thx for sharing your story and progress. Your attitude appears to me to be amazing. I’m a L1 burst fracture from a m/c accident caused by someone else and everyone seems to want me to be full of rage but I feel it’s counter productive. My positivity keeps me in P/T and pushes me to get back to walking. Thx again.Incomplete SCI: 4 months ago. T2 T3 fracture T4 burst fracture, broke my hip in 3 places including and open book fracture, dislocated my right knee tearing my acl and pcl all from some guy illegally merging onto oncoming traffic while I was riding my motorcycle. Today I can walk with crutches AMA,I'm t2-t3 incomplete as well. 18 months and still nothing. Best of luck.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Looking for examples of better accessibility.,Id like to make my own tiny home,Hi Qwert, one of our bloggers looked into Accessible Tiny Homes a couple years ago and found 5 examples, she also included links to the builders in the article. We didn't really get into cost/budget but it's a start. [https://www.spinalcord.com/blog/5-amazing-wheelchair-accessible-tiny-homes](https://www.spinalcord.com/blog/5-amazing-wheelchair-accessible-tiny-homes)Looking for examples of better accessibility.,I used to hike with my best friend. I’m sad I don’t get to sit at the top of secluded mountains anymore with her.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Suprapubic pt II,the suprapubic catheter should essentially drain based on  gravity so you need to ensure your collection bag is below the bladder. Your kidneys aren't involved in the process besides from creating urine and passing it to the bladder through the ureters.Suprapubic pt II,I also have a suprapubic catheter. While I do find my drainage is based on positioning, as long as I make sure the tubing is all downhill, I can drain just fine while sleeping on my back without any manipulation. I initially had some issues with clogging, but switching to a larger catheter size resolved that. Perhaps that could also help your situation? Best of luck to you in finding a solution!Suprapubic pt II,I’ve had a SPC for around 25 years now it’s a good thing. Try using a night drain bottle that sits on the floor (I sit mine in a bucket in case it overflows) about 10 minutes after lying down I move the tube around a bit till I can hear the urine dripping/flowing and then it’s set for the night. 

If traveling I use a bag and bag holder attached to the side of the bed or a chair etc so it’s below bladder level

See how u go!Suprapubic pt II,I feel like there could be a number of different things to try here, but some additional info would be helpful. What size catheter are you using, and what volume is the balloon in the end? What type of drainage bags are you using (leg bag, bedside)? If using a leg bag, are you using extension tubing or connecting it directly to the catheter? Are you using a garter or tape to keep it strapped to your leg?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Whole Body Spasticity - "Going Foetal" Incomplete C4-C5,You can do this.  I know you can.  Peace friendWhole Body Spasticity - "Going Foetal" Incomplete C4-C5,Any updates.  I'm praying for you.  You matter.

Xoxo

Your friendWhole Body Spasticity - "Going Foetal" Incomplete C4-C5,I have gone back to the foam wedge.

It stops me turning, in the night.

A bit of hip pain, but manageable.

I am getting a muscle relaxant Tiznadine.

Also, I may buy leg straighteners.

They are the things physiotherapists use for knee dislocations.

They lock the leg straight.

Just an idea.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
is anyone else here done with this,I’ve definitely felt like that before, you certainly not alone in that. I’m also 10+ years in and have at times cursed my painful over and over , wondering what the fucking point is. 

It’s not fucking easy. 

It does pass through. Those feelings will not always be so intense. Our bodies suck a lot of the time, and in my case it’s thanks to Neuropathy pain. If you have it, you know how awful and relentless it can be.  Thing is, there are some small stretches of relief and distraction that happen. Sometimes they come out of nowhere, but mostly we have to work at making the good happen. It does happen though. 

We got a shit deal with our situations, but we can still have good quality lives . Ours just happen to have a lot of physical and/or mental pain at times. For me, I have to remind myself that I can still do many things that a lot people with more severe situations cannot. Not just SCI, but a myriad of other issues. I know that people tell you to think of that all the time and it can feel like it’s dismissing your own situation. I just mean for myself without comparing, I try to remember to try doing something I can do to get my mind occupied on something else.

Anyway, I just wanted to say yeah, I definitely go through that sometimes, I hear ya man. Try to distract yourself...I know it can seem impossible, but I promise this feeling will pass.is anyone else here done with this,Yeah I really miss the days when I would wake up and feel good. No back pain, no excess tiredness, no stomach bladder or bowel issues. I keep going out of the feeling like I have to because I can't just quit but fuck this shit is so much extra.is anyone else here done with this,Yup. I just got out of a week in ICU because of a UTI that went septic and caused me to have a heart attack. I am barely 30. If my arms weren't completely useless, I would've put a bullet through my head a long time ago.,Just because you can’t physically do that, doesn’t mean those feelings shouldn’t be addressed. 
Please talk to someone who can help.is anyone else here done with this,Often I have felt this way when I have been suffering with an infection. Might be worth checking your blood work, it can really drag you down to those extra low levels. 

If you can think of projects, or something to focus on in the future and look forward to that's the stuff that keeps me going. Otherwise you can just be stuck in the same repetitive Groundhog Day situation and that doesn't help anyone.is anyone else here done with this,I now have vibrations along my nerves unless I am walking or standing or if I'm in a specific contorted position I can lay down. If I try to sleep while they are vibrating I lose feeling in my body parts and it takes longer to get the vibrations to stop. I can sleep for 2 to 5 hrs at a time. Of course like all of my symptoms this is "not possible" and no one else has ever had these symptoms. My family Dr. does not want to hear about my issues as there is nothing she can do so I must wait for the neurologist to reopen. Could be a year from now. I will be out of money by the end of the month. If I don't fix myself somehow on no sleep and living with a narcissist I will be... what? Living in a parking lot walking around my car in circles because I can't sit or lay down? I wake up wondering if I should just get rid of my cats, plants, hopes & dreams and just die. If these vibrations become permanent I will be killing myself. Until then I'll just keep trying to be positive and pull myself the fuck out of this. I am so tired!is anyone else here done with this,(Internet hug) My husband has been injured for 42 years (C6-7) and he's pushing 70. Your feelings sound very familiar to what my husband tells me. Please find someone to talk to about your feelings and your pain. Find distractions through friends, family, a cat, reading, a hobby, whatever it takes. That you have survived with this for 10 years already is awesome & certifies you as a badass.is anyone else here done with this,Dude, yes, you're not alone my friend.

All my closest friends are working at Google, Facebook, and Amazon, making a quarter-million dollars salary. I was the leader in most of my study groups, graduating Summa Cum Laude with a 3.9 GPA in Computer Engineering. I worked at IBM, Lockheed Martin, and got an offer from Apple. 

2 weeks later I got in a roll over car accident and my old life was taken from me in the blink of an eye. 

Now? I am on so many meds that I can barely understand code or engineering anymore, so i can't work. I've been isolating myself and watching TV all day, which made me feel utterly useless. 

I got married a few weeks ago. A week later, I realized I could never provide for my wife. And on that particular day my pain was at a 10. I wrote a note to my wife and family, downed 1500 mg oxycodone, drove to the beach, and started swimming out to sea. 

As I was being battered by the waves and drowning, I heard God's voice & couldn't get my beautiful wife's face out of my head. I decided I wanted to live and started swimming back. I barely made it back to shore and called 911.

I'm now at my family's house and am SO glad I decided not to go through with it. I made a vision board with goals and am now working towards those goals. If you can, be around people as much as possible. It's terrible to isolate. By myself, I was in a pain/negativity feedback loop. I'm seeing a psychologist and it's helping a lot. Make sure you re-evaluate your meds and make sure youre not taking any you don't need. I am an addict, so I have to be very careful with my meds. I have my wife dispense them to me. 

I love you, no matter who you are. We are warriors. The pain we go through is more than anyone can imagine. As I was being battered by the waves, I was like, "this is it? This is what it takes to be a seal?" We're FUCKING WARRIORS. No one knows how strong we are. But, in truth, we're the toughest sons of bitches in the world.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Spinal Injuries Project,WHy not use a tool to find the most common issues on this subreddit?https://www.brandwatch.com/blog/top-six-subreddit-analytics-tools/Spinal Injuries Project,Do you have anything in mind that you want to modify? What made you choose this idea in particular? Do you have something specific you want to work on or really just starting from scratch?,Honestly, I don't really know where I am going with this project. We were given a design brief to complete. At the moment, I'm just looking for ideas that I could with on, so anything you could recommend would really helpSpinal Injuries Project,Mmm what was the design brief? How intricate can this be!? I mean cooking tools are always an easy safe bet .... but I did think of something


https://cheelcare.com/products/cheelcare-companion 

If all you are doing is designing could you design a detachable scooter like this but for a power chair? I have videos of it being  used on a manual CBC air if you want to pm me,Batec [makes a similar one for quadriplegics,](https://livingspinal.com/handcycle/electric-batec-for-quadriplegics/) but also requires a manual chair. 

It would be cool to see one for power chairs, too. How do you imagine that working? Rolling onto a platform?,This is the brief:
https://www.boltburdonkemp.co.uk/design-the-change/ and it can be as intricate as I want, but I only have 5 weeks to finish this project.

When you say cooking tools, what exactly do you mean? Do you mean things like pots and pans? The chair idea sounds interesting, I'll pm you for the videos.   Thank you!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Catheters not covered?,100% covered by Medicaid,Thanks! He’s on corporate/private insurance thru the end of year. And then will be on some sort of marketplace insurance on 2021. We thought they were covered initially but apparently they are not now?Catheters not covered?,They are covered by my private insurance ( anthem blue cross)Catheters not covered?,Medicare covers them once disability goes through but the smallest possible quantity (3/day, I think) of the cheapest possible option unless urology does battle on y’all’s behalf.,He got approved for Social Security Disability. But my mom was told he won’t qualify for medicare until he’s been on Disability for 2 years. He is 57 years old. 😔Catheters not covered?,It depends on the insurance policy.

We had one policy with United Healthcare where they weren't covered before switching to a totally different policy with BCBS where they are covered.

You need to look for the term Durable Medical Equipment or DME in the fine details of the policy to see if they're covered.,Yup.  It was part of a reason I turned down a job offer.  

Going from 100% coverage to 0 is a sizeable income hit.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
My dad (new C5) is waiting for his real motorized wheelchair and has a loaner. We can’t find a table to get close enough to him so that he can reach his food, iPad, etc. None of the table stands fit under the chair enough to get him close. Any suggestions?,I’ve ordered steel table legs on Etsy and you can specify their height for his clearance needs and then attach them to a wood table/counter top from a hardware store for a more permanent solution. There are also furniture risers to add up to 8” of clearance for a quicker and cheaper solutionMy dad (new C5) is waiting for his real motorized wheelchair and has a loaner. We can’t find a table to get close enough to him so that he can reach his food, iPad, etc. None of the table stands fit under the chair enough to get him close. Any suggestions?,I have a c5 friend that made a custom table to his heigt.My dad (new C5) is waiting for his real motorized wheelchair and has a loaner. We can’t find a table to get close enough to him so that he can reach his food, iPad, etc. None of the table stands fit under the chair enough to get him close. Any suggestions?,My boyfriend (c4-5-6) has been injured about 3 years. It took a lot of trial and error, but we have a pretty sweet setup now. 

 His iPad holder and phone holder are from [Modular Hose](http://modularhose.com/Assistive-Technology/at-ModularHose/). Seriously, I think these things are going to last us a lifetime. We wasted money on several similar products from Amazon, and not one of them lasted longer than a few months. They also make a killer [water bottle](http://modularhose.com/Assistive-Technology/mh-drinking-solutions/). It’s on his wheelchair when he’s up, and we strap it to a [cheap coat rack like this](https://www.amazon.com/Mind-Reader-Standing-Hanger-Umbrella/dp/B01MY2Q8QI/ref=sr_1_2?dchild=1&keywords=cheap+coat+rack&qid=1604266725&s=home-garden&sr=1-2) when he’s in bed. 

We clamp the iPhone and tablet to his wheelchair when he’s up, and to a medical [rolling table](https://www.amazon.com/Drive-Medical-Overbed-Table-Chrome/dp/B002VWJZ2Y/ref=zg_bs_3775531_2?_encoding=UTF8&psc=1&refRID=7W824WR1GBK3DRNW7D7C) when he’s in bed.

For reading and eating, we use a wheelchair tray with velcro straps. Insurance covered one [similar to this](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0009STN06/ref=cm_sw_r_oth_tai_uJWNFbJ64S061) a few months ago, but before that we made a cheap one with fiberboard. I don’t know how to upload photos to show you ours, but I’m sure you can imagine. We actually love the homemade one for travel because it’s so light! 

One last thing that made a world of difference was [the stylus we found on Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/MEKO-Universal-Precision-Capacitive-Replacement/dp/B00N1BRWLA/ref=sr_1_5?dchild=1&keywords=meko+stylus&qid=1604266476&sr=8-5). We wedge it between his ring/middle fingers and his pointer/thumb. It’s amazing what he has been able to do with that stylus because it allows his hand to be at any angle. It really helps to give fluid movements, so he can make music with apps like GarageBand and digital art with Affinity Photo/Affinity Designer. 

Hope this helps!,Thank you!!My dad (new C5) is waiting for his real motorized wheelchair and has a loaner. We can’t find a table to get close enough to him so that he can reach his food, iPad, etc. None of the table stands fit under the chair enough to get him close. Any suggestions?,Have you tried a tall bedside tables they have in hospitals? Example below. 

Vaunn Medical Adjustable Overbed Bedside Table With Wheels (Hospital and Home Use) https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00QMNTMXA/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_api_i_mtUNFb4ZMT6F6

Otherwise my dad finds that he can reach his plate if he pulls up at an angle or sideways to the corner of a table or counter. 

My parents moved into an “accessible” apartment. Ironically all the counters are lower which would work well for someone in a manual chair. But for someone in a power wheelchair, it’s not the best option.My dad (new C5) is waiting for his real motorized wheelchair and has a loaner. We can’t find a table to get close enough to him so that he can reach his food, iPad, etc. None of the table stands fit under the chair enough to get him close. Any suggestions?,Try mechanics trays.  They’re wheeled, height adjustable, super stable, come with a nonstick mat, cost $100-$125, usually pretty brightly colored, extremely easily assembled.My dad (new C5) is waiting for his real motorized wheelchair and has a loaner. We can’t find a table to get close enough to him so that he can reach his food, iPad, etc. None of the table stands fit under the chair enough to get him close. Any suggestions?,Try a card table. I used a card table for my kids diaper changing table. It was high enough to get my legs under. Good luckMy dad (new C5) is waiting for his real motorized wheelchair and has a loaner. We can’t find a table to get close enough to him so that he can reach his food, iPad, etc. None of the table stands fit under the chair enough to get him close. Any suggestions?,If its the armrests that are a problem you can lift them up and keep them upwards before trying to enter. This is probably obvious...but just in case.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Low Hemoglobin?,This is common. They would have debrided the pressure sore to get it down to the healthiest tissue possible.  Healthy tissue is bleeding tissue. So he should be good after some blood and some time.

Edit: stupid auto correct,Okay, thank you so much! They did the debridement on the 23rd. Did the first transfusion on the 28th. Flap surgery on the 29th. And now another transfusion today on the 1st. 

He sounded incredible immediately after the debridement. His voice was so normal and he felt amazing. I am hoping this extra boost of blood will help him feel good again. 😔

He’s been dead tired.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Georgia Tech students working on a urine collection bag alternative for neurogenic bladder!,How does it measure bladder fullness? Is it a pressure sensor? Also how does it prevent UTI's? It looks like the catheter will still be in the bladder, so wouldn't that still cause infections?,Unfortunately, I can't share many details on our sensing mechanism in a public forum. Feel free to reach out privately (through our site or Reddit pms) if you're interested in learning more!

&#x200B;

In terms of UTI prevention, we have catheter valve studies which show a 17%-26% reduction in UTI occurrence -- our device would work in tandem with a catheter valve so we can provide that reduction to a greater population. From a physiological standpoint, research suggests that the stronger "washing" action that occurs when using a valve prevents encrustation of the catheter compared with the steady "drip" of urine associated with a bag. You are correct that we wouldn't be able to prevent all UTIs since the catheter is still there, but we expect to prevent some.

&#x200B;

I hope this helps! Let me know if there are any more questions I can help answer or if you have any feedback on what we're working on!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Gloves and $$$,Are you on Medicaid?

My boyfriend and I used to pay out of pocket for his gloves before the pandemic. His doctor had told us that insurance doesn’t cover them. We asked to get a prescription when prices drove up a few months ago, and insurance had no problem covering it for us. We’re getting a box of 100 every month now. 

Try calling around to local DME’s covered by your insurance and ask if they carry disposable gloves. Then tell your doc you need a script for them for your Bowel Program and give them the contact info for the DME you want to use. 

We’re trying to find out if we can get BZK wipes for cathing covered next. (Fingers crossed)Gloves and $$$,[This](https://www.vitalitymedical.com/basic-vinyl-synthetic-exam-gloves.html) is where I get mine. More expensive than usual due to covid but not $26.Gloves and $$$, Vinyl gloves are 1k/$65 on amazon.  Nitrile are a hassle to find - Costco has boxes of 150/$10, but capped at 1/transaction so we just get a box every week.  Allegro medical is super unreliable for anything they don’t warehouse themselves, but their pricing is okay - before placing an order, call their customer service and ask if they are selling it or if the vendor is really cardinal/medline/bard/wherever - if it’s allegro it’ll show up on time, if it’s anyone else there’s just no telling wtf will happen. They’re sweet about it but....Gloves and $$$,Express Medical Supply is where I get most of my supplies.

It will not save the web link. exmed.netGloves and $$$,[deleted],Oh my god thank you so much.Gloves and $$$,I use condoms, not sure they’re any cheaper, but they come pre lubed ;)Gloves and $$$,My insurance covers gloves from my medical supplier but when I was buying it off pocket Costco had the best price per glove.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Travis Roy, Who Inspired Millions After a Hockey Tragedy, Dies at 45,Big loss for the SCI community. He did a lot to further research, and his book was pretty inspiring for me as a young man with an SCI when I read it about 15 years ago.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Oxcarbazepine question,I don’t know what the dosage is for spasms but for epilepsy it is well known for causing weight gain.  I have a friend who was taken off tegretol (carbamazepine) and put on oxcarbazepine specifically to make him gain weight.,Well that confirms my suspicions :(Posted Question, Comment, Reply
How to deal with my nerve pain.,Gabapentin aka Neurontin. 1800mg bid. Lyrica didn’t do the trick for me either.,I agree, you slowly build up the dose. It was a life changer for me! All the best.How to deal with my nerve pain.,I use medical marijuana, meditation, and ibuprofen. Medical marijuana for me does not alleviate the pain, in fact initially it makes it worse, but once I crest over that painful period, the pain is dulled pretty well.,have you tried different strains and ways to ingest (vape, smoke, edibles, topicals, transdermal patches and lotions)?  A 1 to 1 thc/cbd edible works best for my nerve pain and usually kills all the pain.  Also certain strains work better than others.  Some make it less painful and then some completely eradicate my painHow to deal with my nerve pain.,i've had lyrica and neurotin. they didn't work.  Medical cannabis has been the only thing that actually kills the pain.  A 1 to 1 ratio of thc/cbd seems to work best for me.  Certain strains work better than other but they all work better than the only 2 pharmaceutical solutions that are out there,Did you have any negative effects from lyrica?How to deal with my nerve pain.,I did gabapentin and pregabalin, they worked but I realized they were also messing with my ability to think. I ended up stopping all pain meds, it sucked for a bit but I was able to get used to it. Now I don't have much issues with nerve pain until I lay in bed to sleep and then it will flair up. So at night I use a heating pad to help it go away but it doesn't always work. It sounds like your nerve pain is worse than mine but this was my experience.How to deal with my nerve pain.,Marijuana is great for nerve pain and pain in general.

Those pill meds that was given to me to treat nerve pain had to many side effects for me!How to deal with my nerve pain.,I use Topomax with Lyrica, it's helped.  Maybe ask your doc about it?How to deal with my nerve pain.,Ice baths if super cold showers and doing whatever movement k can seem to help me. Medicine: gabapentin.How to deal with my nerve pain.,I took gabapentin and it didn’t work. Now I take amitriptyline and I do medical marijuana as well. Typically 10 mg edibles every day, towards the end of the day so I can get shit done without getting high all the time. Not to bash anyone in this group because people are able to function well on marijuana. A physical therapist of mine also told me I need to stretch the parts of my body where I’m experiencing nerve pain. That did work A little bit, but most of it is psychological and not going anywhere.How to deal with my nerve pain.,I use Diclofenac cream & Lidocaine creams & patches. Thst us the only way I can function. I go broke buying it. I'm on Lyrica too, it does help but lately it hasn't been as much. I'm looking into these desensstizing things online. It kind of makes sense somewhat because after my showera & I use my hand shower to scrub off the old creams I ALWAYS have so much less pain for a couple of hours afterwards.How to deal with my nerve pain.,Either 30/500 co-codamol, or a spiked roller bar. I'm trying to get off the pain meds entirely, but this is the lowest I could get down to and still be functional.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I did a thing to protect my car from my wheelchair,this has always been an issue but I've never thought of anything to do to stop or mitigate it.  I like this idea but idk if I'd do it myself.  I've thought of the 3m scratch protection film but I still feel like it would eat through that and eventually scratch the paint.  But cool idea homie!,Thanks, yeah I didn't think the film would be a long term solution so I came up with this. I have a better idea for one but I would have to purpose build it from scratch.I did a thing to protect my car from my wheelchair,Great idea!I did a thing to protect my car from my wheelchair,Man, I do not miss transfer boards one iotaI did a thing to protect my car from my wheelchair,Great idea 💡! Thanks for sharing 👍Posted Question, Comment, Reply
For those of you who have experimented with Ketamine/LSD, and hopefully from quads…is experience is generally positive or negative? Noting that the experiences from here of mushrooms seems to be quite negative regarding spasticity,I had ketamine for my flap surgery, and waking up from it in the waiting room was one of the loveliest things I've felt, like waking up swaddled as an infant. However I would be worried about self dosing and my addictive personality.  
I loved tripping before my injury, however now with the length of LSD I have to cath mid trip, which is like impossible for me, and leads to a bad time on the two occasions I have tried it post injury. I thought about a foley, but as I never wear one, I didn't want to bug out and rip it out mid trip.  
I have yet to hear one bad review of DMT, although I have not tried it myself. For any hallucongin, please make sure you are in a good set and setting, which means a comfortable physical and mental place.  
I just stick to the sticky icky these daysFor those of you who have experimented with Ketamine/LSD, and hopefully from quads…is experience is generally positive or negative? Noting that the experiences from here of mushrooms seems to be quite negative regarding spasticity,I haven’t tried ketamine or LSD, but as a C6 incomplete I don’t have spasticity issues on mushrooms. Molly was awful for spasticity though.For those of you who have experimented with Ketamine/LSD, and hopefully from quads…is experience is generally positive or negative? Noting that the experiences from here of mushrooms seems to be quite negative regarding spasticity,I have tried LSD pre and post accident and the spasticity is extremely intense.  I have a lot of tone and spasticity anyways but this was on another level. Be ready to deal with that. I found sitting cross legged helped with it somewhat. LSD is still LSD though, it can be a beautiful experience or it can be really difficult but it’s usually what you need. As another person said make sure you are in a positive space and positive mindset. I hope you really enjoy your experiences.For those of you who have experimented with Ketamine/LSD, and hopefully from quads…is experience is generally positive or negative? Noting that the experiences from here of mushrooms seems to be quite negative regarding spasticity,L1 para here, I have done 6 ketamine infusions and while expensive, I had experiences that I will try to never forget. I’d implode anyone that does experience psychedelics to write down those feelings the next day and look back on them.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Baclofen pump users, are they worth it?, I have had the pump almost 30 years. I've never really been self-conscious about  how the pump looks. Even when I had the old thick ones that made it look like I swallowed a hockey puck so I can't say much for that. All I Know is that it works great for me. I was on  the max oral baclofen and valium  before the pump and hated it. Now I don't even think about spasms. The only downsides  for me is getting it replaced every 5 to 6 years but even that  is not that big of a deal anymore. I get mine refilled every 7 to 8 weeks.Baclofen pump users, are they worth it?,I have a complete injury at T2/T3. I fought spasms for 8 years before finally deciding to have the pump implanted. It makes a HUGE difference in my QoL. It's not really noticeable under clothes and hasn't changed the way I move or anything like that. The side effects of baclofen are now non-existant for me. Plus I'm not taking Tizanadine as well. So, yeah, totally worth it.,What type of doctor did you talk to about getting one? I'm assuming a neurologist.Baclofen pump users, are they worth it?,I have 1. Ived had it 4 5 yrs. At one time I wanted it out but couldn't deal with the side effects of coming down . I dislike it sticking out my side as well.  At first I purposely gained weight to cover it up, but now that I work out a lot it hard to hide it. I'm a t11 incomplete.    I spasm a whole lot but I don't like moving up or down...Baclofen pump users, are they worth it?,Pump may or may not change your bladder spasticity. You could get higher doses for botox more often. Or switch to a different medicine without as many side effects (although they're not going to be quite as effected as oxybutynin).Baclofen pump users, are they worth it?,Following this thread. I have some of these same questions.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Really fucked up my spine with nitrous oxide.,Yeah, inhalants are bad for you. Sorry you’re going through this. Best of luck with your rehab!Really fucked up my spine with nitrous oxide.,Wow that's crazy. Thanks for sharing, and good luck in your recovery!

As someone with chronically low B12 and gets injections, I've heard that nitrous oxide use drains the B12 in your body. Knowing that, I'm wondering if you have peripheral neuropathy from an extreme B12 deficiency - since very low B12 can cause neurological damage.,Oh most definitely, I'm either totally with it, or out of it like I just came out of a seizure. It affected my brain more than I'd like to admit.Really fucked up my spine with nitrous oxide.,Oddly enough, I remember the smell of nitrous oxide from just before my spinal cord surgery. The anesthesiologist used it to induce general anesthesia.

It smelled sweet, and just seconds later the lights went out for almost nine hours ...Really fucked up my spine with nitrous oxide.,I know this isn’t in the spirit of the sub, but this post makes me angry. Here I am a person that was careful their entire life and due to a freak accident I am permanently paralyzed. I’m reading a post from a guy that did too many whip-its. I don’t have any will toward OP but it’s hard for me to empathize with someone like this.,I'm leaving this up because /u/Jeiku53 is handling it great and maybe you'll learn something but this isn't the way to talk to someone who is coming here for support.,I get where you're coming from, but this happened due to my own stupidity and I fully accept that. It doesn't mean I still don't have an injury and that I'm recovering from it. Yeah the paralysis in my body is only temporary(4-6 weeks before I'm at about 50%) but I posted this for peoples medical curiosity not for sympathy, empathy, or even support. You shouldn't be angry at addicts for ruining their lives, we do it to ourselves. But if I can try and make the most of my recovery positive and spreading the word of what happens with nitrous oxide addictions maybe it might influence someone to not buy that next box of whipits.Really fucked up my spine with nitrous oxide.,Im sorry you're in this predicament, I hope you feel better soon <3 

But just saying as a general statement to everyone that N2O is pretty safe and not unhealthy to use occasionally.,As someone who went from occasionally using N2O to someone fully addicted, I'd say the only appropriate use or time for it is from medical professionals. If people want to use them recreationally they have to be extremely  cautious of the addictive and long-term damaging properties of N2O. I want others to learn from my mistakes, not test how far they go before they get to the point I'm at. I knew but chose to ignore due to an extremely depressive slump, but telling others it's safe at all for recreational purposes is something I'll never do again.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Neurogenic bladder and bladder cancer!!?,Handy article - https://craighospital.org/resources/bladder-cancer - 

tl;dr risks are for folks with in dwelling catheters, not folks who IC, and appear to be linked to irritation from the balloon.,Reminder....Kidney failure used to be the most common way people with SCIs died.  

>Another catheter-related risk that has been suggested is a factor called the “era of care.” Some physicians believe that people most at risk are those who were injured long ago–before modern antibiotics, anticholinergic drugs, and catheters made from safer, non-rubber materials, were available. Some even believe that bladder cancer incidence rates will be lower among more recently injured SCI survivors who are treated with today’s more modern methods.Neurogenic bladder and bladder cancer!!?,Honestly, what is the point of knowing the exact number? I'm not trying to be snippy -- I just mean that as people with relatively severe disabilities, we all know that we're at increased risk of certain medical conditions and diseases, depending on our disabilities.  The only thing we can do about it is to keep ourselves informed about how to keep ourselves healthy -- in the case of taking care of our bladders, we need to drink water, maintain clean cathing techniques, and get ourselves checked out by urologists in a timely manner.  We can also ask each other about tips and tricks we've found that work to keep down infections.

Remember, just because people with your disability have X increased risk for Y disease doesn't mean you're for sure going to get it.  And part of having a disability (part of the human condition, really) is accepting the fact that you can only control what happens to your body to a certain extent.  You gotta get zen about it, man, because life is going to take its course, none of us live forever, and in the meantime the only thing we can do is take care of ourselves -- and each other -- the best we can.,I’m a HUGE hypochondriac and I saw that and I freaked out. I’m also afraid of doctors 😕Neurogenic bladder and bladder cancer!!?,I looked it up for SCI and it looks to be somewhere around 6%, but it depends on how they did the study, etc. Smoking cigarettes makes the risk go higher. Do you have a urologist? If not, you probably should. They should be the ones to give you a better answer and then do cancer screening (urine tests and also looking at the bladder through a scope).,Yes I have a urologist since I was little at CHOP (children’s hospital of Philadelphia) she’s been my urologist since I was little and it made sense for me just to stay there instead of going to another adult hospitalPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Constant constipation causing stomach pain,Have you tried Miralax? Fiber? What's your fluid intake like?Constant constipation causing stomach pain,Drink 2-3 liters of water every day. Eat food with high fiber content; avoid over consumption of highly processed foods. If you need to, supplement your fiber intake with Psylium husk. Exercise is also helpful.,Metamucil or any generic psyllium husk fiber was a god send for me. Take it every day and it helps a ton!Constant constipation causing stomach pain,Eat fiber rich foods! I had the same issue as a complete, got really backed up to the point I had to go to the er.  They tried giving me drugs for it, laxatives and what not.  The thing that fixed it all was counting my fiber intake. Look it up but men should eat around 30g of fiber a day and women around 25g I think.  Along with drinking enough water like someone else said.  You can also supplement with metamucil, but focusing on having a fiber rich diet has worked for me.Constant constipation causing stomach pain,I'm a complete but after I got injured I was always on and off being constipated. I maintain regulatory by drinking Metamucil daily and having a bowl of raisin bran daily as well. Also I use bisacodyl suppositories if I start to feel constipated.Constant constipation causing stomach pain,I'm a complete but after I got injured I was always on and off being constipated. I maintain regulatory by drinking Metamucil daily and having a bowl of raisin bran daily as well. Also I use bisacodyl suppositories if I start to feel constipated.Constant constipation causing stomach pain,Even if, like me, you have a fast metabolism. You may only need to do this every other day. Best to eat smaller meals more frequently and keep hydrated. However, nobody is the same here, YMMVConstant constipation causing stomach pain,Macrpgol.

Laxative and stool softener.

I take half a sachet a dayPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Insurance and multiple home renovations,It will vary hugely on where you live, your insurance company, and in all likelihood your lawyer. 

WC covered modifications to my parent’s house over a decade ago (I was 18 when I was injured.) They also covered minor modifications to the apartments I’ve lived in, but they’ve been fairly accessible to begin with. I’m looking for a home to purchase now, and I’m expecting them to modify that as needed. Because it will be a long term living situation, I believe they’ll be willing to modify more than what they did to my parent’s house. 

This is based on conversations with my lawyer, claims adjuster, the OT who managed the original modifications, and friends from the local NSCIA chapter. I don’t yet have personal experience with the second major renovation, so I’m curious to hear what others have to say, and hope it confirms what I’ve heard before. 

I would definitely recommend reaching out to your local chapter for advice from people who have experienced the reality in your area.Insurance and multiple home renovations,I have never heard of insurance covering a second home. In fact workmen’s comp might cover home renovation but afaik private insurance doesn’tInsurance and multiple home renovations,I have never heard of private insurance covering home modifications at all, let alone more than once.  Worker’s compensation will cover but it’s limited and I’ve not heard of them covering more than once.  Medicaid will cover mods but I’m pretty sure that’s pretty rigidly as needed and time limited, like DME replacements.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
brace recommendation,Depends on where you do and don't have strength. Leg braces can just be for the ankle joint (AFO) or can be more extensive, including the knee (KAFO). Having the ability to move without your wheelchair would be great for situations where it's not accessible for your chair! Do you think you'll be able to do some stairs?,i can do some stairs, with one crutch on one side and holding on the rail on the other side. but i am focusing on normal walking at the moment.  


the specialist there told me, that he doesn't want to interrupt my training and that i just should go on for the moment. i received some stabilisation for my ankle, but i'm not sure if i really need it. maybe my hopes were too high, so i just keep going :)brace recommendation,I get a lot of advertisements for the C-Brace on social media. I don’t think I have the hip strength for it yet, and I have no idea whether you can get it covered under insurance, but still considering asking my PT about it.,yea i saw that one as well. would be great to have one of course, but i think for me even something less high-tech could do the job. and yes i think its quite expensive, about 75k from what i've heard.  


do you walk with crutches as well? because i can walk with crutches quite good and i don't really put much pressure on them, but without i do not have stability. so maybe also the hip needs to be improved.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Does anybody wear a back brace to improve your posture?,I’ve thought about it, but I think it would be uncomfortable in my chair. I haven’t tried it though.Does anybody wear a back brace to improve your posture?,I have a baja brace someone gave me. I try to use it here and there. Sometimes it helps for a few mins. Mostly, it just pushes my pants off my ass. I work a physical labor job with a laundry list of lower back issues. Im wide awake at 3::00AM hoping a couple shots of rum will give me some relief to sleep until I need to wake up and work so take my advice lightly I guess.Does anybody wear a back brace to improve your posture?,I didn’t have the best posture before getting hurt so I’ve been worried about it affecting my future wellness. I’ve also had increased nerve and leg spasms since becoming more active. My lower back hurts a bit cause it compensates for lack of muscle strength elsewhere. So I got a store bought Velcro back support and I find it does keep help with posture in and out of the chair without any discomfort and IMO it relieves the back pain by isolating the muscles. I’ve I’ve worn it to bed on occasion and didn’t have any discomfort. But like many of us with SCI- we are constantly diagnosing ourselves and trying to figure out what works or doesn’t work. Good luckDoes anybody wear a back brace to improve your posture?,Hey. I found this through your 'fuck smoke detectors' post. 

I used to wear a low support back brace, okayed by my physio. It helped, but what helped more was getting a better backrest. I had the slingback support as standard and for years just thought that was all I needed. 

Eventually bought a solid backrest privately, again after running it by physio. The difference is incredible and I wish I'd done it years ago. Mine is a Tarta which are hideously expensive, I got mine second hand and that saved a lot. It compensates for one shoulder being lower than the other and gives very customisable contour support. I'm female and have a 10" difference between waist and hips so standard contour backs didn't work for me. Someone who is male or doesn't have such an odd ratio will probably be fine with a more standard solid back.

It has cut half an hour out of my physio every day, because I'm not constantly working out the side effects of my poor posture. What I would suggest is to always run it by your physio or chair OT, and to be aware of your cushion if you change it. I use a J2 as my standard cushion with the large fluid pad for pressure relief. For exercise I have...uhhh I'm not sure I think a Jay Active? Anyway it's lower so I'm closer to the wheels for consistent hard pushes. Those three inches make a massive difference (that's what she said) to the backrest fit and have to be compensated for if you do anything similar.,I have a carbon fiber backrest and if I add just a little bit of lumbar support with some sort of cushioning or just chopping the top two inches off my posture would be greatly improved.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
30/M - Possible congenital stenosis? Severe foraminal herniation, apparently. What am I up against here?,I was diagnosed with severe cervical and lumbar congenital stenosis. It's moderate in the thoracic spine. I had lots of wear and tear, mainly from sports. Ended up needing my cervical spine decompressed and fused, C2-T1. Also needed decompression in L2 and L3 because I couldn't walk. 

The cord compression over the years screwed up my nerves so I have pretty bad spasticity. I'm in some kind of pain or discomfort daily. My neck has been fused for 10 years now. My last lumbar surgery was in 2016. The damage in that area caused my bladder to stop worrying correctly. I also got a terrible case of PEs after that surgery and almost died in the ICU. 

I too went through the ringer with tests. I had terrible joint pain, in my hands, wrists, feet, and ankles. Lots of other things. No one could figure it out for years, until one day I woke up and my arms and legs were numb. I couldn't hold anything, it barely walk. After my doctor saw the MRI he sent me right to the ER. 

The truth is that it's very difficult. Surgery is so painful, especially in the posterior cervical area. Recovery sucks. Even daily living is exhausting some days. But the alternative is so much worse. I'm able to work, play with my kids, exercise, etc. Basically live a somewhat normal life. I'm also pretty young, with potentially 30-40 years left if all goes well, but that's also a long time to have to maintain.

You ultimately have to listen to your doctor, and decide for yourself, but there is a light. It won't be easy but I'd what you have to do. Life goes on and you be able to enjoy it. 

Good luck.30/M - Possible congenital stenosis? Severe foraminal herniation, apparently. What am I up against here?,So not a Doctor so take what I say with a gain of salt...
Your MRI scan looks very similar to mine. I has a mtb crash and suffered an SCI but at the location of my SCI C6/7 I had stenosis which confused the Doc's as to whether it was an old injury with a new one on top of it. 
Anyway I had C6/7 disk fused and am on the mend...life will never be the same as pre crash but I'm a he'll of a lot better of than if I did not have the surgery in my humble opinion.30/M - Possible congenital stenosis? Severe foraminal herniation, apparently. What am I up against here?,Not a doctor, no SCI.

Do have ME/CFS (20yrs), with high EBV and scoliosis (around T4-6). Pain if I sit unsupported, and I too drape myself over a foam roller every night to until stuff cracks more or less into place.

I don't have a lot of neurological symptoms, mainly temperature regulation issues (tmi but I don't sweat so overheat fast in summer, and am equally bad with cold weather. Thought I was just weird until I complained to a friend with a SCI who said he had this too.)

There have been quite a few people who got tested for CCI, AAI after Jen Brea from the Unrest movie was diagnosed and treated for that (C0/C1 fusion). 

It fixed most of her CFS symptoms. No more Post Exertional Malaise for one. (She also had/had tethered cord so is not completely symptom free, and then she got covid19 as well...) 

I think there is a Functional Mechanical Facebook group (name should be similar to this if I messed it up) where you can learn more about this. Surgery is considered "last resort" for CCI/AAI, but in short: yes, it seems like neck /upper cervical issues can cause/contribute to CFS symptoms. More research is needed (what else is new).Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Desensitizing nerve pain,Have you tried gabapentin? My nerve pain shows up by making the tops of my feet feel like they’re on fire. But it’s under control with gabapentin,\+1 gabapentin - I tried everything I could think of, gabapentin is the only thing that ever worked. it is from my lower calves and sides of my feet.,I've been off and on Gabapentin, but I cannot tell if it does anything at all. Does it feel like just a reduction of constant pain? I just have spurts of hyper intense pain, so maybe that's why it is not working.Desensitizing nerve pain,I don’t know what you mean by desensitizing nerve pain but I have been able to use estim/nmes to kind of trigger my nerves into behaving normally, so that my nerve pain is greatly reduced in those areas.,What is warm/nmes?Desensitizing nerve pain,Sort of by accident? I use a hard spiked roller on my legs when nerve pain plays up with them, seems to work for a while and then fade. Over the last short while doing that I haven't noted much change in the regularity of the nerve pain, but I guess we'll see.Desensitizing nerve pain,i've tried lyrica and gabbapentin and neither worked well enough for me.  It took the edge off but still hurt a ton.  I live in a medical state and have my medical marijuana card and that is honestly the only thing that's ever worked for me.  Been using it for 8 years and it takes all the pain away. Some strains are more effective than others but it works extremely well for meDesensitizing nerve pain,I have found that daily meditation practicing detachment from the feeling of touch has made it more bearable. The pain still causes 15-60 second bursts of 9/10 pain, but it feels a little more in control now. Anxiety seems to play a large role in the intensity and duration of my nerve pain so now I just let it run its course with no objection mentally.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Suprapubic diversion urine,You may want to check with your physician. If a suprapubic catheter becomes blocked, urine can drain via the urethra (although this may not be possible for everyone). This can act as a ‘safety net’ for people who get autonomic dysreflexia when their catheter blocks. With a suprapubic catheter, a person has an alternative entry point to their bladder (via the urethra).,Thanks for the advice! I’m still waiting to hear back from the doc, but glad I contacted them. Thank you 🤟🏾Suprapubic diversion urine,Urine can come out your penis.  When my husband first got his suprapubic his doc never told him it could leak, but it stopped for the most part after a couple of months.  Sometimes his tube will get twisted where it is held on his leg and he'll pee through his penis.,Thank you for the insight! Haven’t seen any leaking yet but it feels like something wants to come out, hopefuly my doc can help :/ thank you again!Suprapubic diversion urine,I haven’t gotten one yet but soon. The physician I consulted with said that if leaking becomes a problem, they can install a type of restriction in a simple procedure.

(I’m sure you’ll get this figured out and it would be great if you posted an update for the rest of us.) Good luck!,I’m glad to hear, hopefully I can suggest this to my doctor, because although I have the ability to urinate urethrally as a safety net for my bladder overfilling and causing AD, there’s tons of internal damage that I’d rather let heal before more urine passes through :/ but other than this I think it’s pretty cool not feeling constant Penile pain, and reducing the risk of infectionSuprapubic diversion urine,
I have had one for 3 years (C4 incomplete). I can roll, but try to stay off my stomach.  Showers are no problem.  In warm months, I wear shorts and have a valve on the end of the catheter, and empty myself when my bladder feels full.  I can pee out my penis but only standing up to get gravity help since my bladder contraction muscles don't work.  In cold months, with long pants, I wear a leg bag.  It is not glamorous, but it works.,Thank you for the breakdown, I think it’ll take some time to get all the kinks worked out w outfits and bags but there’s a learning curve to everything I guess, thanks again!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Has anyone ever seen or tried a female “condom” style catheter ? It might be good for travel or when intermittent cathetorizing is not ideal. Thx for any tips or leads...,Sorry, I don’t have any personal experience with this but you might enjoy David Sedaris describing his https://youtu.be/ejEcOMqBvpY,Just watched the video...😂 Thx for that link,  but also want to try whatever is out there ...or invent a better one for us gals who Need a solution! Life’s too short to have to plan around bathroom breaks!Has anyone ever seen or tried a female “condom” style catheter ? It might be good for travel or when intermittent cathetorizing is not ideal. Thx for any tips or leads...,The best cath for travel I've found is the Colopast compact speedicath. It comes in a self contained tube and includes a 1L bag. Everything is prelubed and pre-connected up. The cath is telescopic so it's very compact, although it is quite hard, i.e. not very flexible. Still, it does the trick and the whole thing is disposable, once you've emptied the bag. The convenience of only having to carry a bunch of these tubes for a day out and maybe a travel pack of wet wipes is awesome. I'm a guy so I can vouch for the male ones, but they do make a female version with appropriate mods. Looks like it still all comes in a 20 - 30cm tube. Not quite a wearable item but for a fast pee without having to lug around all the usual paraphenalia, they're pretty good.Has anyone ever seen or tried a female “condom” style catheter ? It might be good for travel or when intermittent cathetorizing is not ideal. Thx for any tips or leads...,Do you mean like the purewick?,I had never heard of them! Have you tried one? How does it stay in place?,Just googled.. it does look like a hassle and not for travel or being on the move ... gotta be something better to allow easy method for self cath if no washroom available.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
My bladder keeps me awake all night long!,Sounds miserable. What volumes do you get when you cath at night? Wearing compression socks can prevent the problem with your second bladder emptying at night. 2 hours is probably too close to bedtime to stop fluid intake, if you want to pursue that approach effectively. As far as meds, there's a bunch of different pills that range in efficacy and side effects. Botox (like you had before) is another option for some folks. But if you haven't had it, it may be good to get urodynamic studies done to get more info on your bladder function and protect your kidneys.,Not a lot, small amounts. Maybe 200 to 300 mL at a time. So throughout the night I normally Pee 1.5 L-ish. 

I will try and stop my liquid consumption at about 8 PM. The weird thing about the liquid in my legs is my legs don’t appear to be swollen, even if I sit in my chair all day long. I can try compression socks, but to be quite honest I would rather not. I’m just stubborn that way. I like when my legs are out in the sunshine in the summertime. :(

I guess winter is not a bad time to try out long socks

I think I’m going to try the Botox injections again, when I got them done, probably close to a decade ago, I had a constant bladder infection and really didn’t know how to take care of myself very well, now that I have some experience behind me, I think not having a bladder infection at the same time as the injections might benefit me more, I’ll keep this sub Reddit updated regardless of how it goes.

ThanksMy bladder keeps me awake all night long!,I had exactly this problem, up every 2 hours for a pee. Finally one of the urology nurses suggested using a bag at night, and switching back to intermittent catheters during the day. As far as fixing the sleep issue goes, perfect. Not so good for the partner issue, but TBH, I'd rather the uninterrupted sleep.

I use prelubed speedi-caths during the day and they're super quick and easy. But there's a bit more prep with a bag, basically the catheters are not pre-lubed, and you need to have enough hand control to crack open a sterile 10ml cartridge of water, fill a syringe with it and inject it down the second tube within the catheter to inflate the little balloon that holds it in place. Obviously you need to lube the catheter and attach it to the bag as well. I use a latex glove and those little packets of sterile gel for internal use. In 8 years, I've had maybe 2 UTIs and neither could have been blamed on the indwelling catheters. Don't worry about technique, if you're physically capable, your uro people should show you how to do it all.

I also produce a lot more urine at night so I had to increase the bag size. They go up to 4L which is - for me - peace of mind big enough. Whatever your comfort levels, keep going until you find something that works for you - there's no reason to have to live with disrupted sleep due to a urology issue.,Thanks, I will definitely talk to my urologist and look into this method. I’m fairly certain I’m getting the spasms in my legs because my bladder is telling me it is full, I don’t think I would get spasms in my legs if my bladder wasn’t telling my legs what to do.My bladder keeps me awake all night long!,The involuntary leg spasms are called spasticity. It is commonly treated with a drug called baclofen.,Baclofen plus Clonidine patches (yes, they can be used for spasticity as well as blood pressure etc.). Been trying out Botox for some clonus-like spastic twitching in my legs.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Recent C5/C6 quad. Confused about ASIA scale,I'm a C1 C5/6, ASIA B incomplete. But, there has been a lot of questioning on where I actually sit on the scale, including discussion of ASIA A. I'm a year out, at injury I had slight movement of one finger, and some pain. Year out, more pain and fair amount of movement in one hand as well as my thumbs, some limited arm movement.

The way I see it, it serves as a classification more in rehab/hospitial than everyday life. I've not found anyone non medical even remotely interested in my classification, and the medical people I do see often disregard the original classification and work off my demonstrated functonality. 

I also don't really think its always so binary between complete vs incomplete, I have at times been described as either one even though my actual functionality has maintained consistent since recovering some hand/arm use. I asked once an got told I was 'in a grey space' between incomplete and complete, maybe you're in a similar spot.?

Spasms do also suck, haven't tried CBD (uncontrolled in the UK)- but hope it goes good for you :),Okay cool, thanks for sharing. That’s about how my physical therapist answered it and like the rest of the crazy questions I burden her with we both agreed somewhere on it being another weird spinal cord thing not fully understood/defined.Recent C5/C6 quad. Confused about ASIA scale,What makes you ASIA A is sacral sensation and function.  That’s it.  That’s why saddle numbness and continence changes are a huge deal. 

I know two folks with incomplete C injuries who walk (one independently and one with crutches) and are classified as ASIA A. 

Since I was injured I have gone from ASIA B ->D->C.  It’s really easy to focus on the ASIA scale because it’s measurable and standardized and quantifiable at a time when nothing is sure or predictable and no-one is giving answers that feel real or useful (that’s how I felt anyway) but ultimately I didn’t find it helpful - I got derailed by it entirely - it was more helpful to me to focus on the gains I made over time and how to improve those and my skills and not worry about the scale.

ETA: my experience of CBD is very narrow and specific, I have used topical decarboxylated CBD from whole plants (not hemp), and it has been helpful.  I have also found NMES to be helpful reducing spasticity although if you’re going to go that route you have to commit - it also reduces atrophy so you will retain some strength meaning spasms may become stronger.,Okay I forgot to mention this but I have some butt sensation haha, I can feel when I need to weight shift and once I’m in bed my butt stings a little after a long day. 

That’s also exactly how I feel about the ASIA scale and a wise OT told me to ignore it. All the scientific studies use it so when I’m doing research it’s hard to ignore and not get bummed out. However what you said is consistent and makes sense so thank you.,I’m L1 Asia A and I’m part time walker/chair! Zero sensation is sacral area is the reason I’m classified as A.Recent C5/C6 quad. Confused about ASIA scale,The way I've had it explain to me and actually that qualified me from a to b is do you feel a finger being inserted into your sphincter… sounds brutal. But I've heard that from several consultants now. If so, you may want to try instillagel rather than usual lubricant for your bowel regime. The usual name given to people who can move things below injury is C7 preservation and so on.,I do (or at least certainly the stims during bowel program) and use dibucaine. I suppose I’m B, I just wonder what made them initially classify me as A. Oh well it all seems kind of silly and almost pointless. Thank you!Recent C5/C6 quad. Confused about ASIA scale,Hi @razorback I was in a similar boat you’ve found yourself in! I was classified as an A at admission and at 4 months was still an A. At six months post I had a re-eval and became an Asia-C with motor function and sensory. I noticed changes in sensation and motor and was like this isn’t right. To be a defacto incomplete you have to have sensation three levels below your site of injury with strong results — and or anal/function/sensory. I can’t feel my legs but I can move them. Based off what you wrote it sounds like you’re transitioning out of spinal shock and may be a B maybe C; so I would just keep rehabbing and wait for a new re-eval. There’s also another thing called zones of partial preservation which become Greg areas in the Asia-A rating. Im 10 1/2 months post injury.Recent C5/C6 quad. Confused about ASIA scale,I'm a C7 (ish) ASIA C. I'm a C because I recovered a significant amount of finger function (both hands are about 3/5 strength, so a bit clumsy and weak but reasonably useful) and I can slightly wiggle some toes and twitch my left thigh. I was reading studies that were saying many ASIA Cs are able to walk and I still can't at almost 5 years, and it's such a bummer. I'm working on letting stuff like that go though, it's not beneficial for me to worry about where I think I "should" be. I just focused on rehab and recovering what I could and tried really hard not to worry about the statistics and all that. 

I haven't used CBD for spasms. I stick with baclofen and stretching exercises. I would like to try MMJ but I can't really afford it right now, but I know people with SCI and MS who have had great success with both MMJ and non-THC CBD.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Can I interview you about your experience?,So here’s the deal - my SCI was over five years ago - I did gait training (with and without robotic assist) inpatient and outpatient in the first few years, was walking, developed weird complications, had multiple follow up surgeries, did more outpatient gait training but am way more than 5 years out, no longer walking - eligible for your research or not?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Cleaning wipes for Intermittent Cathing,BZK wipesCleaning wipes for Intermittent Cathing,Huggies unscented baby wipes.,Same here.  Also still easy to find during the pandemic.Cleaning wipes for Intermittent Cathing,Off brand disinfectant wipes, I think across all brands the colors are standardized for how much disinfectant is present. The pink tops are safe to use on skin.Cleaning wipes for Intermittent Cathing,Wait you guys wipe first?,Self cath bro weget that hole clean before we insert..Cleaning wipes for Intermittent Cathing,Sage brand Meatal M-care cleansing wipes. Nurses used them in the hospital when my husband was there; now that's what we use.Cleaning wipes for Intermittent Cathing,Alcohol wipes.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Cystoscopy advice needed please help,You have been to your doctor about this pain, right?,Yes I have been on numerous occasions and have been treated with ciprofloxacin. The first course was 2 weeks second course was for a month and then then again for another month nothing seems to workCystoscopy advice needed please help,Have you reached out to your PCP/GP? Did the urologist treat you with antibiotics post cystoscopy? Often urologists will give prophylactic antibiotics to SCI patients after a cysto.Cystoscopy advice needed please help,I think you should reach out to your urologist and PCP first thing.  I have never had a cystoscopy without prophylactic ABs and some anti inflammatories for the next couple of days, so this sounds very miserable to me.Cystoscopy advice needed please help,I have discussed the issues with the urologist and they sent me for an MRI scan and I have had the results back there doesn't seem to be any serious issues there from what they can see! I am now waiting for a phone consultation with them to discuss where to go from here. I was just wondering if anyone had ever been in a similar situation to mePosted Question, Comment, Reply
Is computer networking job possible for paraplegic?,It’s totally doable. In big companies the network admins aren’t responsible for hardware installation and the job can be done sitting at a desk.,That’s a relief. Was really concerned I might not be able to it. Thanks again.,I was going to suggest looking at big companies too!Is computer networking job possible for paraplegic?,I think it would be better to ask someone on a computer networking sub since they would know the job better than most people here since I’m guessing there are not many people here with experience in that field (in comparison especially). Try explaining your situation and I’m sure someone in say r/computernetworking could answer you .Is computer networking job possible for paraplegic?,Many of the development and configuration roles, including packet capture, diagnostics, routing, management etc can be handled from the chair.  Some of the physical installation tasks, patching etc could be handled but many would be difficult without good assistance or a good understanding workplace (server rooms tend to be small and full of junk for example).Is computer networking job possible for paraplegic?,I was in the networks department at Ford Motor Co for 4 years. 90% of the jobs are in planning and BOM management, so it's basically Visio, excel, powerpoint, and mapping network configurations. Most installations are done by suppliers or skilled union tradesmen. 

If automotive/autonomous vehicle companies interest you, PM me.Is computer networking job possible for paraplegic?,Network admin and design yes - absolutely no problem; network cabling, patching, fiber runs, in and out of closets - the spaces ares small, narrow, very tight, tend to be warmer and dustier than expected - unless you’re using crutches (and even then) it would be pretty challenging.,I am starting on crutches in therapy now, but I was thinking how the hell I would be able to do the job without carrying things. But I’m looking for more of a network admin position, so if it’s as you say then that’s a relief.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Motivation Monday-Beast mode. Last video was stairs now forearm crutches. Still moving forward.,Keep moving forward! A year ago I was first starting on crutches, now I don't take my wheelchair anywhere. It feel amazing but the work never stops.,Thx so much. Yep- PT is my new job.Motivation Monday-Beast mode. Last video was stairs now forearm crutches. Still moving forward.,Hell yeah brother, get it! I'm in a pretty similar state and my legs hyperextend like crazy. Still trying to find a good brace for that.,Thx. I’ve been buying all manner of knee brace, store bought or online. None so far are perfect but each has positives and negatives. You rock your PT and I hope to hear more on your progress.,(via YouTube wheels2walking) Otto Bock C-brace might work well?
 https://www.ottobockus.com/orthotics/solution-overview/c-brace/Motivation Monday-Beast mode. Last video was stairs now forearm crutches. Still moving forward.,You look amazing! You seem very similar to me six years ago. Just keep working every day and take time to cherish your progress, no matter how minor. I have a mantra that drives me forward very day — Never give up!

I am still paralyzed below the knees but I have since made it out of the wheelchair, learned to walk again with arm crutches, learned to walk without the arm crutches but with the assistance of Phat braces, got back into regularly riding a stationary bike and using a rower and I also got back on a two-wheel bicycle outdoors (trails only, no more road biking for me!). I am far from what my old normal was. I will never again be there and that’s ok. I appreciate my life and the lives of those who have supported me far more than before my accident.,I appreciate your words.Motivation Monday-Beast mode. Last video was stairs now forearm crutches. Still moving forward.,Your PT was all like, “yeah! Get it! Look, he doesn’t need me spotting him, he’s got this!” Good work, man!,ThxMotivation Monday-Beast mode. Last video was stairs now forearm crutches. Still moving forward.,Keep up the great work!! Keep us posted!Motivation Monday-Beast mode. Last video was stairs now forearm crutches. Still moving forward.,Warrior! You go boy!,💪🏻Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Anything work on Neuropathic Pain,In addition to Lyrica I take Topomax.  It's seemed to take the sharper edges off my nerve pain, maybe it could help you.  I'm on 50mg 2xday.Anything work on Neuropathic Pain,Also dealing with after-effects of myelitis (long, confusing story) and I'm off all nerve pain meds - went through Lyrica, Duloextine, Amitriptyline, Gabapentin, none really sat right with me so I just use 30/500 co-codamol as and when (sticking obviously to timings) and it works like 80% of the time. Nerve pain sucks though, so good luck.Anything work on Neuropathic Pain,Using Gabapentin 4X’s a day but use Tizanidine when they are really bad. Tizanidine is great but knocks me out.,Tizanidine had some really bad side effects for me - flung my blood pressure all over the place, tanked my liver enzymes and I got rebound spasticity.  I know everyone’s different but keep an eye on your liver numbers.Anything work on Neuropathic Pain,Lyrica can potentially have some horrible side effects.

My wife was on Lyrica (150mg 3 x daily) for lower back disk injury, and whilst it was effective controlling the pain, the other effects, (weight gain, fuzzy head and worse) eventually led to a change to Gabapentin.  She had originally tried it on a recommendation but found little result.

However we later found she hadn't been given enough - she had been given 200mg 3 x day.

Now she is on Gabapentin 900mg 3 x day and it works reasonably well.  The major apparent side effect is excessive tiredness / sleepiness.

Quite a few Dr's when the hear that she is on 2700mg / day think that is excessive, but guidelines allow up to 3500mg / day (prescribed).,This matches my history as well. Lyrics side effects too much and now on 2700 mg of gabapentin a day. 

To the original poster, you can also get spinal injections for nerve pain.  I’ve been going to a pain clinic and they give me about 4-5 injections in my back. It has helped.  I’m still on the gabapentin for now but the hope is to move off of it after sufficient injectionsAnything work on Neuropathic Pain,Im on lyrica, cymbalta (more for depression), and the fentanyl patch. lol. The fentanyl patch works very well, but it’s last resort of course.Anything work on Neuropathic Pain,I'm on Lyrica Topomax and Tizanidine for pain. Same side effects, sleepiness. I just had a spinal cord stimulator implanted this past Friday. I am still recovering from surgery and they have not turned it on yet. But I will let you know how it helps with the pain in my feet legs and back.Anything work on Neuropathic Pain,I switch from gabapentin to lyrica and I think I noticed an improvement. Again, hard to say. Just remember, there may be an underlying reason to your neuropathic pain. Fortunately I've discovered upper limb muscle tightness is responsible for mine. So soon I will try to taper down.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Quadriplegic at home exercise - Sareem Poems Go Ahead,Well done! 

The song scared me half to death when it came on blasting so loud, but well done!,Thank you, sorry for the loud song:)Quadriplegic at home exercise - Sareem Poems Go Ahead,this was badass! can i ask what level of injury you are and how long since you've been injured? My SO is a c6 and is starting to gain some light sensation in his left leg.,c2 incomplete, 29 years injured. I wish your son all the best, the human body is an amazing thing and can always improve.Quadriplegic at home exercise - Sareem Poems Go Ahead,Amazing! The heart of a true fighter!Quadriplegic at home exercise - Sareem Poems Go Ahead,I love this, thank you for sharing. I noticed you had mentioned you were injured for 29 years. I would love to hear your thoughts on the physical therapy/exercises you do from then to now. Do you find the exercises you do now more beneficial? Again, thanks for sharing!,I think the exercise now is more beneficial as 29 years ago I don't believe much improvement was expected after spinal cord injury.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Hi. I’m Paraplegic_Chad’s wife,Welcome! I'm still quite a fresh quad, so I don't have too much advice to offer. Just that for people going through an SCI, I've found that people approaching things from a point of view of 'How can we do this now?' rather than 'We can't do this now.' has been really beneficial. 

There are almost always adaptive ways of doing things, don't write off any life experiences - search, be creative and willing to compromise. Being in a chair really doesn't have to be such a big disability these days.,I'm a year out Quad, and I just want to echo this. I 'wrote off' a bunch of stuff when I got paralysed, but have actually achieved some of them and am planning to keep on acheiving things after covid.Hi. I’m Paraplegic_Chad’s wife,[WAGS of SCI](http://wagsofsci.com) is for partners of people with SCIs and may be helpful for you as well.,Am I the only person that’s turned off by that group? They always seemed mildly patronizing,I tried joining and never got accepted!Hi. I’m Paraplegic_Chad’s wife,What sort of questions do you have?Hi. I’m Paraplegic_Chad’s wife,You are awesome for joining!! 

I am not in your same shoes, but I’ve been active in this category because my father sustained his SCI in July of this year. My mom really enjoys the WAGS of SCI facebook and instagram. Those are women who can relate to you directly and it might be helpful. 

Separately, I’ve had some marriage difficulties in the last year, and couples counseling has helped tremendously. I think most issues in a relationship can be tied back to the need for better communication. 

I always try to remind myself that life’s challenges will make us stronger if we are able to overcome them. With the injury, with your relationship. If you can work together to get over the hurdles, your relationship can be stronger than it ever was before. Being emotionally open, communicating more, working through issues can bring an incredible sense of intimacy (not meaning sexually) that you wouldn’t typically experience.Hi. I’m Paraplegic_Chad’s wife,I’m a married para with 4 years in the chair. My wife is a champion and next to me, the strongest person I know. I’m truly blessed and grateful to have her and that she’s stayed around astonishes me. So... ask us or herHi. I’m Paraplegic_Chad’s wife,The Rutgers carecure forums have a fairly active partners/caregivers area - just another resource to consider.Hi. I’m Paraplegic_Chad’s wife,Thank you for coming here darlin. This group and others have given me a lot of support. An if you just ask I’m sure they will help both of us or just you if you need advice. I love you forever and forever.,I love you too darlin thank you for pushing me to meet your friend on here. She is amazing an I know this group is. I’m glad you have some support and making friends. An I hope you all accept me as well.Hi. I’m Paraplegic_Chad’s wife,What are some issues you guys are struggling with?Hi. I’m Paraplegic_Chad’s wife,What are some of your guy's pain points?Hi. I’m Paraplegic_Chad’s wife,Oh my. I stay quite busy but I’ve seen his post. Feel free to reach out!!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Transverse Myelitis?,u/mewithoutcthulhuTransverse Myelitis?,Yes- TM at T2-T4 in 2014. I did reply to an earlier post of yours with more info. Feel free to reach out, and do note that there is an important research update "Multiple Sclerosis, Myelitis and Neuropathies, and Neuromyelitis Optica Research Update" November 6, 2020 1:30-3:00PM. Info [here](https://events.jhu.edu/form/FallResearchUpdate),Thank you so much! I would love to discuss more with you.,Thanks for this link! I have NMOSD, so will be tuning in.Transverse Myelitis?,Mine is. Back in 1999.,How severe was it?Transverse Myelitis?,2002. Paralyzed from the neck down. I am able to walk again. Took a few years, but didn’t fully recover. My left side is still very very weak. Because of TM I deal with a neurogenic bladder and bowel, ulcers on my legs, and a lot of severe pain. It sucks.,I can take steps with a walker & wheelchair right behind me. The bowel & bladder problems I think are worse the not being able to walk. :(Transverse Myelitis?,Mine's is pretty confusing, but yes to myelitis and transverse. Incomplete quad, fulltime manual wheelchair user, 2019.Transverse Myelitis?,Not TM, but my son's SCI is often misdiagnosed for TM or GBS. He has Acute Flaccid Myelitis, (AFM).Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Student discord !,Let see how this work... And it should help a few down the line..Student discord !,Dope, ill join for sure!Student discord !,I think that's a great idea. You are reaching a lot more people that way by including different age groups!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Does anyone have experience with Trospium for overactive bladder problems? I have a spinal injury from over 30 years ago .. am an incomplete para at T12 and have used Botox successfully. But now not as effective anymore ... i appreciate any advice anyone has please.,Currently using oxybutynin. Dry mouth is an annoying side effect.

No experience with Trospium. Negative results using Botox.,I took Oxybutynin for a few years. My urologist at the VA switched me to Darifenacin because [research indicates that oxybutynin can lead to early dementia.](https://www.health.harvard.edu/mind-and-mood/two-types-of-drugs-you-may-want-to-avoid-for-the-sake-of-your-brain)

>When the researchers examined medication use, they found that people who used anticholinergic drugs were more likely to have developed dementia than those who didn't use them. Moreover, dementia risk increased along with the cumulative dose. Taking an anticholinergic for the equivalent of three years or more was associated with a 54% higher dementia risk than taking the same dose for three months or less.,Thx.  Appreciate your experience.Does anyone have experience with Trospium for overactive bladder problems? I have a spinal injury from over 30 years ago .. am an incomplete para at T12 and have used Botox successfully. But now not as effective anymore ... i appreciate any advice anyone has please.,I was going to try it instead of oxybutin but it was super expensive even with insurance,That sucks for you.  I’m fortunate that i have coverageDoes anyone have experience with Trospium for overactive bladder problems? I have a spinal injury from over 30 years ago .. am an incomplete para at T12 and have used Botox successfully. But now not as effective anymore ... i appreciate any advice anyone has please.,I started taking it about a month ago to replace Oxybutinin. My bladder is definitely calmer since switching and my dry mouth has improved tremendously.,Thx !.. are there any side effects you find troublesome with trospium?Does anyone have experience with Trospium for overactive bladder problems? I have a spinal injury from over 30 years ago .. am an incomplete para at T12 and have used Botox successfully. But now not as effective anymore ... i appreciate any advice anyone has please.,How long have you had Botox? How long since the last injection and how many CC's is each Botox infection?,I’ve been having injections about every 6 months for over past 3 years.  I’m not sure about dosage. urologist says may have developed antibodies against it.Does anyone have experience with Trospium for overactive bladder problems? I have a spinal injury from over 30 years ago .. am an incomplete para at T12 and have used Botox successfully. But now not as effective anymore ... i appreciate any advice anyone has please.,I take spasmex 3 times per day. Generally works well. Normally last 4-5 hours between caths,Thx. For your tipsDoes anyone have experience with Trospium for overactive bladder problems? I have a spinal injury from over 30 years ago .. am an incomplete para at T12 and have used Botox successfully. But now not as effective anymore ... i appreciate any advice anyone has please.,Trospium is much better at calming the bladder vs oxybutin & less dry mouth BUT it caused increased constipation so there needs to be an adjustment with Miralax,Appreciate knowing that. .. i will adapt that - I’m concerned about keeping up energy and alertness as still want to work and feel good😁. Are there any other concerns that u know of for using Tospium?,ThxDoes anyone have experience with Trospium for overactive bladder problems? I have a spinal injury from over 30 years ago .. am an incomplete para at T12 and have used Botox successfully. But now not as effective anymore ... i appreciate any advice anyone has please.,Before my retention issues Unused Oxybutin. It worked well. Horrible dry mouth is a side effect.,Yes i stopped using because of that... and headache and dry eyes.  ThxDoes anyone have experience with Trospium for overactive bladder problems? I have a spinal injury from over 30 years ago .. am an incomplete para at T12 and have used Botox successfully. But now not as effective anymore ... i appreciate any advice anyone has please.,I use myrbetriq. One pill a day and it has helped me allot.,Thx!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Flap surgery for pressure injuries?,I can’t speak to the pressure injury but any “rehab” facility that lets a patient develop a stage 4 sore is not okay.  

I wish you, your father and your family all the best.,We are exploring options to seek legal action. It’s really so infuriating. He also had bad shivers daily while at rehab. They never thought to check for a UTI. He’s had an ongoing UTI for the last 3 weeks that likely started while he was there.Flap surgery for pressure injuries?,I had flap surgery done on my left ischium in 2017 due to stage 4 pressure ulcer.  Here are my take aways:

- As others have said, if it's being suggested, it's necessary.  It's pretty much a last resort. 

- My surgeon flat out said to me that he avoids doing them because of the risk of failure due to patients not listening to instructions. Your dad will have to unquestioningly do as he is told by clinicians in order to successfully, fully recover from flap surgery. 

- The recovery is by far the worst part. Surgery sucks, there's no doubt about it. But my pain was minimal because most of the surgery site was below my level of injury.  But you cannot put pressure on the surgery site whatsoever. So after I recovered for 11 days in the hospital, I was sent to a long-term care hospital to recuperate. I spent 62 days in that long-term care facility. 50 of them (in a row) were spent **flat on my back.** They put me in a Clinitron bed (effectively, a mattress filled with sand-like material that constantly moves underneath you to prevent further pressure sores. A bed that wiggled 24/7.) I could not roll to either side because of my surgery and varying pressures. So it had to be on my back. It was absolutely, mind-numbingly brutal. Upon that 51st day, I got to sit up... For 15 minutes. Then it was back to lying down. The next day was increased to 30 min, then 45, and so on. Once I successfully sat up for a couple hours my "therapy" was complete and they sent me home - with no restrictions, really.

- I was told I was a model flap surgery patient. I didn't ever break the rules. I did exactly what my surgeons, wound care professionals, nurses, everybody told me to do. I never wanted to experience this again, and I never wanted this to be a problem again. So I was diligent and **never** deviated from instructions. As a result, I healed as best as expected.  It was a success.  

- Fortunately for me, I had no real complications. Some of my incision site got a little wonky so it's not pretty. But after going through that hellish year, I don't care about my scars. I'm glad to be alive (I got septic from my pressure sore... Almost didn't make it.)

All in all, would I do it again? Dear God I hope I never have to. It was probably the worst experience of my life, other than breaking my back.  But, with a life-threatening stage 4, you don't have many more options.  Tell your dad to do it, to listen to everything he's told, and he will come out of it okay.  Happy to share any other information if you have questions. I'm not shy.,I feel your pain. Twice.

I had a bursa fail in my left buttock (after 35+ years in a chair; the doctor said there was nothing I could do) and the doctor at the VA told me I needed flap surgery and that I would be on my back for six weeks, then an additional two weeks before I could sit in my chair for eight hours.

No. Way.

I went to an outside doctor who was board certified in wound care. She assured me that we could avoid surgery. I wasted five months trying everything to get the wound to close. At the end she suggested flap surgery. I left her and went straight to the VA. The sympathetic nurse told me that most of the vets try to avoid the surgery as I had, but eventually they have to have it.

My story mirrors yours. Clinitron. 48 days flat on my back. Model patient. Absolutely dedicated to the task of GFTO the hospital and back to life.

Success! I did it!

Five months later my wife is doing the nightly skin inspection. "Uh oh," she says. Turns out that a bursa failed on the other side. I knew that I'd have to return to have another flap surgery on the other side. 

I wept like a baby. I knew what I was facing.

So back to the VA. Same doctors, same wound care nurses. Yes, I'd have to have another flap surgery. I waited for three months for a slot in the wound care clinic.

Another flap surgery. Another Clinitron stay. But now I get complications. A misplaced Foley catheter leads to blood loss due to the blood thinners I'm on. I wake at two in the morning, my lower section bathed in blood. I calmly call the nurse station, tell them what I have discovered. I require my first blood transfusion. Then a UTI leads to sepsis and I need to be on powerful IV antibiotics. Then the light above my bed breaks in such a way that it cannot be turned off; now I have a light beaming down on my face, making the already impossible task of sleeping on my back a torture.

But I remain a model patient, courteous and understanding and patient. 

I again make it out of there after two months.

TLDR; Flap surgery in 2017 and 2018. Success and life returns to normal.,I'm going through this now. To make sure it never happens again I will have a stand up chair when I go home. Currently I'm on week 3 of flat on my back.Flap surgery for pressure injuries?,I've had rotational flaps on both ischial tuberosities. They work a treat. Good fresh new think skin to pad you over for a few decades. Highly recommend before you get too old and you skin thins.Flap surgery for pressure injuries?,I had a flap surgery to close a sacral pressure wound, I spent 2 weeks flat on my back on a sand bed. Healed nicely, looks gruesome though.,Was it fully recovered in those 2 weeks?Flap surgery for pressure injuries?,It just occurred to me - there are these weird glasses with sort of triangle reflective prism things and one of the nurses loaned me a pair after a surgery that kept me flat on my back for a month so that I could still read and stuff bc I wasn’t allowed to lift my arms or anything.  I will ask around and see if any of my family remembers what they were called but maybe someone else here or one of the OTs your dad works with will know?

ETA: they’re called periscope readers or horizontal lazy readers.  They were a big help.Flap surgery for pressure injuries?,I have. It is absolutely brutal but usually when the wound care docs are recommending it, it’s necessary. The toughest part is sticking to the recovery regime but it was the best choice by far. Find a surgeon who has done this before because it’s a specialist operation and you need somebody who specializes in reconstruction. Ischial or Sacral?,Thanks for your reply. What about it was brutal? 

The surgeon does seem really great in this operation. It will be on his sacrum. 

What did your recovery timeline look like? At the hospital, at rehab, at home?Flap surgery for pressure injuries?,I had flap surgery on my left and right ischium at the same time. Everything went well. I was in the hospital on bed rest for 6 weeks so that sucked but it healed great and hasn’t happened again. Just gotta find a plastic surgeon that’s done it before. Flap surgery is a pretty basic procedure for surgeons so as long as you find someone that has experience with it I think you’ll be in good hands. Good luck I know how rough of a road pressure sores are but hopefully it’s almost over.Flap surgery for pressure injuries?,Have any of you used sachril bandages to protect the wound site afterwards? I'm looking at ways of preventing this from happening again. Currently on my 3rd week in rehab.,I am not an expert in these things but I do work for a major medical supply company. I think it’s more effective to be properly offloaded, have a good mattress, and eat well to heal your body. A lot of people do like the sacral bandages but I am not totally sure if they do much if it’s not an open wound? I hope someone else has some insight! 

Are you in rehab due to flap surgery? How is it going so far?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I am moving for the first time to another state. Do you have any tips on how to make sure I have the same level of care provided or any other tips?,I think caregiving is going to really depend on how you pay for it - out of pocket, insurance or Medicaid - and if Medicaid, whether you qualify where you’re going and if so if you’re going through an agency or hiring waiver pcas directly.  It might be worth reaching out to SCI groups in whatever area you’re moving to (Texas is big!) and seeing if there’s a meeting you could zoom into or something. 

If you don’t already have all the DME/supplies you need, try and get set up with that before you go and make sure you have extras for the window while you get established, find a pcp and pmr doc.,There are a few support groups in Texas you can find here:  [https://www.spinalcord.com/sci-support-groups/texas](https://www.spinalcord.com/sci-support-groups/texas) One silver lining of the virus is many of these groups have moved to an online/virtual format so you may be able to reach out to the administrator of a few of the groups to get more info and join some of the meetings even before you arrive.I am moving for the first time to another state. Do you have any tips on how to make sure I have the same level of care provided or any other tips?,Contact the Center for Independent Living for where you are moving. They can probably help you understand your benefits.I am moving for the first time to another state. Do you have any tips on how to make sure I have the same level of care provided or any other tips?,Would it be alright if I sent you a dm? My boyfriend and I are trying to move to WA and we’re wondering about the exact same thing.,Yes, for sure.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
SCI and antidepressants?,Hi! I have clinical depression and take Wellbutrin, without a doubt this medication changed my life. Gives me a boost of energy, doesn’t affect sex drive, doesn’t make me cloudy or anything like that, but rather clear headed. I’ve had an sci for about a year and a half, and have been taking the medication since before my injury. That being said, I can’t imagine going through all of this without it. My first year after the sci was the worst, but I assure you it does get easier. Number one thing I would say is regardless of what your outcome may look like, never stop doing physical therapy and never stop working towards improvement. (Physical therapy is extremely important for your mental health as well). Progress is nail biting slow but there is progress. Best of luck to you, you got this!,Thank you! 

I was asking for my dad who got injured July 25. Wellbutrin is what he was prescribed and hopefully will start taking it tomorrow. There’s been many secondary conditions from his injury, (UTI, pressure injury), it’s really taken a toll on him mentally. We also think it’s PTSD from the trauma of nearly drowning to death. 

Did the Wellbutrin affect your bladder or sleeping habits at all?SCI and antidepressants?,Hi! Im on cymbalta (and lamictal). It definitely helps mellow me out. I get to the edge of the cliff when I’m really sad but I don’t fall off and have a breakdown, if you get what I mean? Let me know what other questions you have.SCI and antidepressants?,Many antidepressants are also used for neuropathic pain management (cymbalta, imipramine, most of the tricyclics)  in SCI, as are some atypical antiseizure/partial seizure management meds (Keppra, Topamax).SCI and antidepressants?,I was put on cymbalta for neuropathic pain but I found that it also helps my depression. The only reason I figured that out is because I had to wait on a refill for a few days. While not taking it, I felt so sad and felt outside of my body. It was very odd.SCI and antidepressants?,Thanks all! He is 4 days on Wellbutrin, which I understand can take a few weeks to kick in. He said he’s eager for it to start working. Everything makes him cry right now: Small frustrations. Being around family and being grateful. Tiny discussions with my mom. Thinking about how upcoming hospital stay. Seeing an old picture of me as a child. Everything.,I’d also recommend (if he’s not doing this already) therapy. Therapy + medication have the best outcomes. When you have an injury you’re going through a loss and most people don’t know how to deal with that loss and grief. It’s definitely helpful to have a professional help with processing all that.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
So I was coming back from camping with my boyfriend and we popped into Brockville Ontario. We where waking through the park, when wow! 🤩 it’s a super accessible play ground! Complete with an amazing bathroom ... I’m impressed because this town literally only has 22,000 people! You go Brockville!,Ah, Canada. That fairytale land where things make sense!So I was coming back from camping with my boyfriend and we popped into Brockville Ontario. We where waking through the park, when wow! 🤩 it’s a super accessible play ground! Complete with an amazing bathroom ... I’m impressed because this town literally only has 22,000 people! You go Brockville!,This is super impressive :’) thanks for sharing!So I was coming back from camping with my boyfriend and we popped into Brockville Ontario. We where waking through the park, when wow! 🤩 it’s a super accessible play ground! Complete with an amazing bathroom ... I’m impressed because this town literally only has 22,000 people! You go Brockville!,That's really awesome to see! Thanks for sharing!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Is it common for people with SCI to have dangerously low levels of vitamin D?,Yes. The less you go outside the lower your vitamin D leves get. A couple of years ago I was really feeling unwell, constantly fatigued and depressed. Got my vitamin D results back and what do you know  - it was 7.1nmol/l. The absolute minimum should be 75nmol/l, so mine was 10 times lower than the minimum healthy range. My doctor had never seen such a low number before.   
I'm too aftaid to check my bone density levels, because those are most probably fucked too. So yeah, take those supplements, better safe than sorry.Is it common for people with SCI to have dangerously low levels of vitamin D?,Yes, because we are not up and using our bones they will become soft and brittle. Being on vitamin supplements is your only option really.,I don't mind taking them but it seems like our bodies don't even absorb them that well. Idk.Is it common for people with SCI to have dangerously low levels of vitamin D?,I love being in the sun and try to get as much as I can, but even so my levels were still low enough that my doctor put me on a daily D3 supplement about 2 years ago.Is it common for people with SCI to have dangerously low levels of vitamin D?,Make sure that the D3 you’re taking also has K2.
Calcium is important as well, but as others have mentioned you should do bloodwork to check levels. We also give my son methylated B12. We don’t know if he has the MTHFR gene mutation, but I think he may since I do. 

Supplements and sunlight are important, but weight bearing is probably more so. We try to get him weight bearing as much as possible. Not his favorite thing, but all his recent xrays and bloodwork came back mostly all within normal parameters, with the exception of alkaline phosphatase being low. They said this should increase as we increase weight bearing and exercise.Is it common for people with SCI to have dangerously low levels of vitamin D?,I know I do.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Hip and tailbone removed,This does not sound like a standard procedure that could be found on the Internet—it sounds like the doctors have to remove some locations where the infection has become intractable. They may not even be able to predict the amount of tissue they need to remove. Don’t intellectualize this. Tell your brother that you love him and support him and let him make his own decisions. It does not sound like he is asking for your advice. What he needs from you is love, acceptance, and possibly physical help.Hip and tailbone removed,This sounds like a modified girdlestone amputation.  I suggest that you go to the carecure forums and post a question for the SCI nurses.  There are also folks there who have had this procedure and talk about the recovery etc.,Thank you so much for the info. Great lead on contacting the  SCI nurses. I truly appreciate you taking the time to write in.Hip and tailbone removed,Thank you..I truly appreciate your advice.Hip and tailbone removed,I had a palialitle cyst that turned into a pressure sore and they removed my tailbone when they did the muscle flap surgery. It was to prevent future problemsPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Paralyzed as a kid jumping off a pier, a man gets out of his wheelchair and jumps off that same pier to help rescue a drowning man,That’s amazing. He’s a hero.Paralyzed as a kid jumping off a pier, a man gets out of his wheelchair and jumps off that same pier to help rescue a drowning man,Magnificent. Everyone in the water are special people.Paralyzed as a kid jumping off a pier, a man gets out of his wheelchair and jumps off that same pier to help rescue a drowning man,I wish I spoke the language so I understood what was being saidPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Lauren Doherty - My experiences with pressure sores: Living with a Spinal Cord Injury,I'm currently going through my first bought with a sore. Tried wound vac first but ended up having surgery. How long after surgery did you try using a shower chair? That's what has me afraid. I use it for my bowl program before my shower and can be in it up to 2 hours. I never want another one if I can help it.,Same, have a vac now but no idea how long it will take close up after that. This the second time, first time it stagnated after I got back from the hospital. Fingers crossed!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
What caused your injury ?,Riding motorcycle when dui driver turned in front of me. Flew 40 ft over her car. Oh hell yes I blame her for her selfishness. Didn’t help when she plead guilty she got no jail time (8 years probation) and when she spoke in court and after in the hallway she didn’t apologize. Screw her because she absolutely ruined my life plan AND gave me endless days of constant pain. I cope with loads of love and support from wife, kids, family and friends. I cope by doing a butt load of PT to get out of my chair. Thx for letting me vent. 😤😡😢What caused your injury ?,My inability to fly....
Mountain bike crash during a gap jump. Don't blame anybody in fact I still have fond memories of the day was having a great time up untill then. 
What keeps me going is my drive to get back on my bike again.What caused your injury ?,Tumor ... just bad luck.What caused your injury ?,Rear passenger in a car accident, nobody’s fault started to skid on black ice on the highway then started rolling and got ejected from the vehicle through the widowWhat caused your injury ?,Run over by a dump truck.

May 10th,2019. I was turning into the end of my street when a dump truck rear ended me pushing me head on into oncoming traffic where I hit another car. The dump driver was texting and never hit his brakes. He was going 60mph. Technically I was dead. A cop was 2 cars back. He pulled me from the wreckage and performed CPR, reviving me. I was medivact away. I remained in a coma for 42 days where I expired twice more. I awoke to be a paraplegWhat caused your injury ?,40’ fall and I landed on my feet gracefully, then my spine ruptured.,SameWhat caused your injury ?,Mountain bikingWhat caused your injury ?,Diving into a pool I thought was deeper than it was.What caused your injury ?,The craziest thing for me since joining this subreddit is all the different reasons things like this can happen. I am super lucky myself but literally in the blink of an eye something happens. I hope you all live long and amazing lives!What caused your injury ?,My son was 3 at the time. He caught a cold, 2 days later paralyzed at T-10 and below. Dx is Acute Flaccid Myelitis, a 1:1000000 condition. Not a day goes by without feeling tremendous guilt and re-playing that day in the ER. No matter how many neurologists and infectious disease experts tell us there is nothing we could have done to have prevented this from happening, it is something that we can’t let go of yet.What caused your injury ?,Nontraumatic, sort of. Fell, minutely damaged my C1 \*or\* didn't and just gained a C1 lesion (no-one is too sure) then chronic myelitis caused the C5/6. 

Dumb luck as far as I see it.

I just wish there was more understanding on the medical side over what I actually have going on/have happened. Atm we're at MS (spinal) inactive, due to multiple lesions - but with no progression for the last year and a bit, MS seems less likely to be correct.  

As for coping - I get by. I just want some clarity on if I'm dealing with only my SCI, or there's more to come.What caused your injury ?,Surfing on Mother’s Day 2013. Was going in and wanted one last wave. I wish I had just paddled in instead. Changed my whole life.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Dignitas,I recovered from bilateral paralysis,  but I was hugely in favor of the idea. It's not an option in my country though.,So are you saying your quality of life has improved?Dignitas,Thank you for even broaching the subject.

I am a member of the Final Exit Network, but it provides nothing for me beyond a window into the suicidal suffering of others.

I will likely have to take matters into my own [flaccid] hands.,I think my biggest fear there is the possibility of surviving which I have seen in hospital and they end up way worseDignitas,It's a fair bit of fucking about and it's a bit pricey though, isn't it? I'll probably just go Travel Lodge and a big bag o smack. Not any time soon I hope but when I start becoming unable to care for myself again, and I guess it depends how much new pain I get. I'm a c4 inc, wc user.,I worked it out to be about 18000 dollars. Considering it would be an end of things I don't know what I would consider pricey.Dignitas,I'm just curious, what level is your injury? I'm a quad with arm function, and couldn't imagine this being a reason for me to want my life. Not trying to detract from what you might decide, or your feelings about it.,Also a quad with limited arm function, and I wouldn't end my life due to my paralysis,Do you have anyone that depends on you or are you on your own? I'm curious as to what you think about the situation.

My entire life was martial arts and climbing and being in the ocean and hiking. I don't see a point in not being able to do these things anymore. Sure they can be done adaptively but it is nowhere near the same.Dignitas,If you type in life coach sheryn you’ll find a channel on YouTube of a woman who opted for this after becoming a quad. She talks a little about the process she went through to apply but I believe they were undecided on whether or not to go through with it due to her having a depressive disorder. Their reasoning was if she could get treated for the depression then maybe she wouldnt want to go through with it anymore. Later she decided not to do it at all for other reasons. She actually has been active on this subforum.

Edit: found the link 
[video ](https://youtu.be/Tk1YsEAdaD8),Thanks for your responsePosted Question, Comment, Reply
Uni Students in the Netherlands' 1 Minute Questionnaire,Not really sure if you are solving a problem here. Forward and sideways balance is something that needs to be learned by experience and I don't see how a device that warns you when you reach the limit really helps. As a wheelchair user you have to go to that limit or beyond (while supporting yourself) often to be functional and learning how to push the limits is extremely important. It could possibly be useful in a training setting at a rehabilitation centre, but I don't see it being useful at home. Might be good for you to contact a revalidatie centrum. I believe Libra in Eindhoven does dwarsleasies. Physios there should be able to give you a lot of insight into the kind of training one does to get better at balancing in a wheelchair.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posting again. Failed artificial disc surgery in Bogen, Germany, 2009. Can’t sit or lay down. Cost me my retirement fund.,What are your options? A surgeon botched my hands so badly that I'm looking into amputation. Either that or suicide.,I’m miserable and brain damaged too. I can’t say anything on Reddit.Posting again. Failed artificial disc surgery in Bogen, Germany, 2009. Can’t sit or lay down. Cost me my retirement fund.,The doctor that did my my last two fusions was one of the doctors that invented the artificial disc at UCSF. He has told me many times that it has not lived up to its promise and that very few patients had good outcomes, especially patients that had it done at multiple levels. He said his team is still working on refining it but the trials so far are not looking promising.,Too late for me. My dr was in Germany. He destroyed my life.Posting again. Failed artificial disc surgery in Bogen, Germany, 2009. Can’t sit or lay down. Cost me my retirement fund.,I’m so sorry you have to deal with this, especially over 10 years. Unfortunately there are no easy fixes to spinal problems. I doubt most people with old injuries will ever be “fixed” in the future. Do you have any idea what you can do for some rel?,They can’t be removed or I’d die. I’ll die with them in me.Posting again. Failed artificial disc surgery in Bogen, Germany, 2009. Can’t sit or lay down. Cost me my retirement fund.,Can't help you after the surgery, but i have a broken L4 vertebrae and spondylolisthesis at L4-5... physiotherapy and exercise has really helped me. I exercise twice a day and have to do it for the rest of my life. But it is fair enough if it keeps my pain under control.Posting again. Failed artificial disc surgery in Bogen, Germany, 2009. Can’t sit or lay down. Cost me my retirement fund.,Come to korea to get surgery, i can guarantee its gonna be much better,cheaper and fasterPosting again. Failed artificial disc surgery in Bogen, Germany, 2009. Can’t sit or lay down. Cost me my retirement fund.,I’m just so sorry.   

I hope that you find some relief.Posting again. Failed artificial disc surgery in Bogen, Germany, 2009. Can’t sit or lay down. Cost me my retirement fund.,Have you thought of setting up a Go Fund Me page? At least some donations would help you a bit in your housing situation...,I’ve been thinking about it. I need a safe home for 4-5 years while I wait for disability. Extra money is required or I’ll be living in my old Honda with a spine and brain injuryPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Help with balance,Find a good PT to work on your core. I use both a PT and on other days a personal trainer to build upon what the PT has done.,Yes this is a super good recommendation - a good PT who can help you with roll over exercises on a mattress can help gain good torso stability. I am a para for 15 years now, that exercise helped me gain terrific balance.Help with balance,I have a brace that enables me to liveHelp with balance,If you can find anyone who does gyrokinesis, it is incredibly helpful.  I am really asymmetrical in terms of core strength but have been able to get much better balance by working with someone really knowledgeable.  Also, it’s going to sound crazy but make sure you are stretching often and really well and both sides equally.Help with balance,I know a couple higher level injuries who use an abdominal binder for better stability sitting in their chair, wouldn’t provide a ton of support but might helpHelp with balance, I wore an ab binder in the beginning that helped me immensely. I’m c7Help with balance,thanks for the suggestionsPosted Question, Comment, Reply
re: accessible vehicle,What worked best for my dad is the BraunAbility conceited Dodge Caravan. It has quite a bit more room in it compared to other models.  A 2015 with around 35,000 miles cost around $34k. 

He is also in a power wheelchair with tilt. He’s about 5’9” and the other models we tried, it brushed his head while rolling in.,Thank you for your response! I appreciate it. My dad is 6'2'' so he can relate to brushing his head in most vehicles!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Thoracic brace compression fractured t1 through t8 all.,They should have found the fractures when I was taken to the hospital by ambulance but they didnt then the next day I go to the back surgeon and he says I have 8 compression fractures and t4_5 is wedge fractured.  I need help they did nothing for me but give me a brace that I was only to where for a month 2  nobody cared about me followed up I repeatedly went to the hospital er because I cant breathe my right lung feels collapsed it's been terrible 3 years I wish it was overThoracic brace compression fractured t1 through t8 all.,I feel for you bro!  It’s so very hard everyday but think of the alternative. I’m almost in constant pain but I’m pushing through because of my wife, kids and all those who care about me. I’m here with them so my way of truly thanking them is to carry on. Please you do the same and advocate for your care.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
My SCI Story,Thank you for sharing,It’s no problem. I enjoy sharing and meeting new people.My SCI Story,Thanks for sharing. I had my SCI two months ago and can't stop thinking about my mistake leading up to my injury and accepting the outcome. It seems like the more I recover physically the worse I become emotionally. Do you have any tips for emotional perseverance? I keep beating myself up because I can walk unassisted now and I know others would love to be in my shoes, I should be thankful but I have such a hard time imagining how I can go on like this for the rest of my life,You will persevere. The body is a miraculous wonder. Never give up and always push the hardest you can. It gets easier with time the first two years for me were the hardest. But you learn to adapt and challenge yourself more and more every day.,what was your mistake?My SCI Story,T5 High-five ✋My SCI Story,Thank you for sharing. I’m new to SCI. T12 complete any advice for trying to overcome the emotional aspects of an SCI.?,It’s hard I seen your post here on the scar. Make a good story. You have to stay positive. You are still you. You just changed physically. It’s normal to experience all kinds of emotions after an SCI. Feel free to message if you or anyone here needs some peer support. I’m glad to help.My SCI Story,Thank you for sharing!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Bowel program while traveling,Here’s what I use: https://www.sportaid.com/nuprodx-multichair-3000tx.html

Im a C6Bowel program while traveling,I’m a c3-c4 I turn on my left side on the bed over a two bed covers that way it’s easier to cleanBowel program while traveling,What “toilet seats that’s everyone uses” or ami missing something?,They’re raised cushion seats that people put on top of toilets. Idk what they’re calledBowel program while traveling,[deleted],Im looking for something smaller and affordable. Those travel chairs are more than 1k :/Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Are there tests for nerve damage?,
There’s something called an EMG (electromyography) that tests electrical signals your muscles make, both when they’re active and inactive. 
Also, a nerve conduction study measures how fast and how well the body's electrical signals travel down your nerves.
Both of these can be used to measure nerve activity and response.,clt716 is correct. They also do a NCV test usually with your emg. I would also suggest that you research and find a good place to get your emg done. There is a skill to getting a proper read via placing the needles. I would personally recommend a university teaching hospital, if you have one close to you. I would also recommend doing this thru a Neurology Group.Are there tests for nerve damage?,> Are there tests for nerve damage?

There are neurological examinations, like testing for presence of pathological reflexes and absence of regular reflexes, muscle weakness and sensory deficits.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neurological_examination

And there are device-assisted methods, like evoked potential measurement, electromyography and electroencephalography.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evoked_potential

And there are imaging methods, like CT, MRI, fMRI, PET, SPECT and probably more.

/edit: "nerve damage" is an incredibly generic term that can mean anything from traumatic injuries to neoplasms and cyst to demyelinating, autoimmune or infectious diseases.Are there tests for nerve damage?,There’s also stuff they do directly to your cord during neurosurgery to monitor what’s being affected.  

If this is a new injury, it’ll be a while before everything shakes out and you can figure out what’s being caused by spinal shock, bruising, etc.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
How is everyone?,I'll lighten the mood here.  Life is good, I get to wake up and enjoy another day, and my son is 17 days old today.  I also have another week of paternity leave and don't have to worry about work.,Glad you have time off.  Enjoy this time!  We have an 18 month old and you will be amazed on how fast this time goes by.  Watching something start as a blob and turn into something that understands logic and love has been incredible.,Oooh congrats on the baby!How is everyone?,I’ve been super angry.. upset about my situation. Knowing in my heart that I’ll walk again but not knowing when exactly stresses me out. I’m lucky enough to be making significant progress so far but am still not patient enough with myself.. that makes me feel selfish and like I’m negatively affecting my recovery. SCI’s are so weird.,Walking's not everything. It's pretty much all you CAN'T do, so stop focusing on that. There's heaps else you can do, and wanted to do before but didn't. So do that and treat your disability like someone with glasses treats theirs. Or a blind person. Or super short/sick/fat/not-perfect person gets on with their life. It will come. Things get better.How is everyone?,Last 3 days not to bad. Finally got some PT Tuesday as the gyms opened up. So Wednesday morning my spasms were mad at me and ruined my day but once that subsided it’s been alright.How is everyone?,I am not doing okay to be honest. How are you??,I’ve been better. What’s up?How is everyone?,I'm ok. Lucky enough to live in Australia so covid isn't the shit show here it is elsewhere. Staying at home actually suits me. I get more time to be disabled if you know what I mean. Losing the commute makes life a lot easier.How is everyone?,Busy with skin, p/sore issues. Need advice for incline working set ups. Otherwise marvellous. You?How is everyone?,I’m so sorry I fell asleep. Please feel free to DM me.How is everyone?,So you're bored at work or after work?,After work. I’m at work now. Just rolled in.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Hi Newbie here!,L1 incomplete here. Tomorrow is 4 years post. 55 years young 😝. WelcomeHi Newbie here!,Sorry if I don’t respond. I’m at work. It’s nice meeting all of you.Hi Newbie here!,T9-T12 1 year post injury,19 young man here!Hi Newbie here!,Welcome! I’m a T4-T6. Paralyzed from a virus when I was 13. I’m 35 now.Hi Newbie here!, C3-c4, motor vehicle accident, at 21 (on my birthday nonetheless, I wasn't driving) now 31.Hi Newbie here!,32 here, going on 14 months since accident!Hi Newbie here!,Hello! T-4 Incomplete. Same, car accident. Nice to meet you.Hi Newbie here!,C5-t1 incomplete since this may! Nice to meet youHi Newbie here!,Hey! I’m Cole Sydnor, C5-6 quad. Welcome!Hi Newbie here!,Welcome! T12 incomplete here; motorcycle accident, five years in. I hope you're able to share your experience with the newer injuries, I've learned a lot from this sub!,I’d love to share my story if anyone is interested.Hi Newbie here!,Hey! Im a few years removed from a T7 complete from a car crash too! How are you??? Im 25 M. :)Hi Newbie here!,Hey you  , I don't have time to talk right now but I seen your post on my email and I want to talk to ya so bad cuz I am a T6 incomplete from a car when I was 17 . I will be gone until 9:30 or 10 then I will see if I can ask questions or just talk , I am in AZ Hope to talk in future I am weaverwoodwoker,No problem.Hi Newbie here!,Welcome, t2-t3 incomplete. Car accident also. Have hope. I'm 16 months out and feel I'm blessed.Hi Newbie here!,Hey. Welcome seen your comment yesterday thank you.Hi Newbie here!,I’m finally off work. It’s so nice for the warm welcome. I’m 24 years old T5 of course. Feel free to message me anytime. I’m always down for a conversation or just to hear your story.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I’m getting better everyday. I’ve come a long way since March! Keep Rolling!,Oof, that cotton in the bottom reminds me of my drain I had. I felt this picture.I’m getting better everyday. I’ve come a long way since March! Keep Rolling!,Nice gash!I’m getting better everyday. I’ve come a long way since March! Keep Rolling!,You’ve got this.I’m getting better everyday. I’ve come a long way since March! Keep Rolling!,Great attitude. 💪🏼👍🏼I’m getting better everyday. I’ve come a long way since March! Keep Rolling!,Damn well everyone got gold in here. Who’s the Oprah? You get Gold! You get Gold! You get Gold. Thanks to you generous Redditor.,Seriously. I have never seen a more gilded post.I’m getting better everyday. I’ve come a long way since March! Keep Rolling!,What the hell is going on? Someone is awarding the hell out of this? Whoever you are thank you! My phone is blowing up!I’m getting better everyday. I’ve come a long way since March! Keep Rolling!,Great man all the bestI’m getting better everyday. I’ve come a long way since March! Keep Rolling!,You’ll have a wicked story to tell with that scar!I’m getting better everyday. I’ve come a long way since March! Keep Rolling!,Looks like mine as well. Good luck. Rock star statusI’m getting better everyday. I’ve come a long way since March! Keep Rolling!,I’m 3 years ahead of you and I know exactly how you feel. Don’t worry everyday is better than the last no matter how small the gain. Tomorrows success is built today’s agony.  Stay on schedule with pain meds and drink more water than you want. It gets better.I’m getting better everyday. I’ve come a long way since March! Keep Rolling!,Already 3 years since my accident. I wish you the best brother, blessings for you and your whole family.I’m getting better everyday. I’ve come a long way since March! Keep Rolling!,I’d say we’re twins with that scar, but around here it’s practically required to post 😆 

It’s great to hear from folks that manage to stay positive though, keep it up!I’m getting better everyday. I’ve come a long way since March! Keep Rolling!,Wow amazing!! Stay strong buddy. It’s rough but you got this!! You need any support I’m here as well as others.I’m getting better everyday. I’ve come a long way since March! Keep Rolling!,All the best, my man!! Trust in yourself and not in snake oils.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Random question lol,What state,CaliforniaRandom question lol,Adaptive devices (hand controls etc) are a C restriction in California.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Shroom’s and autonomic dysreflexia,My friend has a lower level SCI so she cannot speak to AD.

If you decide to try them, here are some things you may want to keep in mind:

Increase in blood pressure. Not a huge amount, but just be mindful of it.

Alternatively, a decrease in blood pressure. Make sure you have a way to get horizontal/head between the knees if you need to at any time during the trip so you won't pass out.

Increase in muscle spasms, possibly for hours. Sometimes mild, sometimes strong. I've heard it's often worth it, though.  Be careful because sometimes knees will lock together which may cause pressure marks to form.

Time dilation. This is a normal part of a mushroom trip, and normally would be of no concern, but paralyzed people live by the clock. Don't forget to do pressure shifts for your skin, to take care of any bladder and bowel needs, or to take necessary medications. Set alarms on your phone so you can relax and not worry about the clock. Drink water.

Also remember that if you have chronic pain, mushrooms will likely reduce or remove that pain, so you'll probably push your body more than you would on a typical day. Have pain meds ready to take before bed.

Finally, type out a list that has your SCI level and any other medical conditions; all your medications; plus the fact that you've taken mushrooms, the amount, and the time you ingested them. In the VERY slight chance you do have to go to the hospital, instead of having to answer a bunch of questions coming at you when you're high as fuck you just throw this list at them. I'm not saying you'll end up in the ER if you take shrooms -- it's just kind of a security blanket more than anything.

One good thing about being in a wheelchair/disabled and tripping is that you can go out in public and act like a complete doofus and no one will blink an eye. Just sit and stare at a tree for twenty minutes and laugh, no one will care.

Edit: Now that I think about it, maybe don't write down on that typed list that you took shrooms, because I wouldn't want you to get into any legal trouble.  Save that info for verbal transmission.  But the rest of it -- SCI level, conditions, medications -- that's a good list to have on you not just for a trip, but all the time, really.Shroom’s and autonomic dysreflexia,I would recommend doing the lemon tek method as they come on fast, hit hard, and don't linger for hours. Might be good to get it over with if your body is not having a good time. I have a lower injury and it all goes through my bladder super fast. 


Grind the mush up good, let it sit in lemon for 20 mins, and pour some hot water in it then drink.Shroom’s and autonomic dysreflexia,The first time I took shrooms I believe it was only 1.5 grams.

My spasticity was... unusual. I wasn't violently spastic, but the spasms were not enjoyable. Within 15-20 minutes after taking the shrooms the skin on my legs started moving in a manner not dis-similar to when a horse shakes off a fly. There were a lot of goosebumps going on. The spasticity was bad enough I thought I might have a bowel accident from everything clenching a bit. The nerves kept firing in my twenty-years-atrophied pectoral muscles. They were not bad, just constant.

I developed a massive amount of phlegm. I'm a C4 quad, so needed assistance leaning forward so I could cough it up. I can tell you from experience that you don't want a high friend helping you out with something that feels like a medical emergency. This occured about an hour into the trip... maybe sooner. It was as if I developed instant pneumonia. I ended up calling a care provider in to monitor me while I rode out the rest of the trip. The phlegm subsided with time.

I had no autonomic dysreflexia issues.

It was fun for the first 45-60 minutes, and then the phlegm got crazy and things got scary feeling.  I tried micro-dosing a few times afterward and experienced the spasms but not the phlegm. I wanted visuals, though, and micro-dosing just doesn't get you there. I moved on from shrooms to DMT and have been much happier.,This is great information, what are the side effects of DMT?Shroom’s and autonomic dysreflexia,Done shrooms, lsd and dmt multiple times as a t4-t5 complete, spasms are massively strong while tripping and the shaking of my legs pretty much don't stop and they continue 1-2 days after tripping, whenever I think it's annoying to deal with I just jump over to the couch and sit on my legs(make sure you don't hurt urself tho) and it makes it super easy to deal with.,im in the same boat as this guy, except im t6 complete, and swap shrooms out for 2cb.. but yeah my legs go wild for days after lsd (and even mdma) - dmt they stop pretty much right after the trip ends though, which is hella nice.  normally they are not too bad.  its manageable if you're on the couch... but in the chair its kinda dumb, wouldnt really want to go anywhere with spasms like that.

aside story: one time my ex and I did 2cb and we ended up in the hospital cause she had a bad trip and got super scared cause her heart was racing and she thought something bad was happening lol.. i kept trying to eat more baclofen to calm my spasms down in the hospital so they took it away from me cause they told me i was on enough drugs lolShroom’s and autonomic dysreflexia,T3 complete 

I used to love drugs, but after my accident, not so much. Acid and  shrooms are the worst in my opinion.... the spasms I get are just incredibly painful and violent, and the level of sweat is ungodly. Molly and X is more enjoyable [less side effects]. But mainly I just smoke weed now, maybe some coke here and there. 

But over all the spasms I get just make it not worth it in my opinion.Shroom’s and autonomic dysreflexia,lol DO NOT do shrooms if you fear spasms, nonstop, for 6+ hours

the only way I survived my shroom trip was by smoking ALOT of  weed that day and consuming edibles and oils. I know this sounds crazy but the spasms were so bad I was getting AD. Furthermore, since I was tripping, my mental state was horrible because I was witnessing my legs move without my control and it was depressing and scaring me. As well as the person I was with. 

personally, I would never do shrooms again. And I don't think anyone with an SCI should either, but that's just my opinion, and you're free to have your own experiences :)Shroom’s and autonomic dysreflexia,Everyone I know that has done them have violent spasms for hours. It makes you sweat an incredible amount also. If you’re going to do them, make sure you’re in an environment where you can control the temperature and have plenty of water available.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Foley care/ pain,Holy shit. Story of my life! In case no one else brings it up or asks, what size catheter (16 French) and what size balloon (30mL) and how full are you filling it (10 mL)?

See if it helps by getting away from a sitting position and on to your hip. I’m curious if the pressure between your urethra and you’re sitting surface could be contributing/compressing/pinching things off. Along the same lines, when was the last time you had a bowel movement. I believe a firm sitting surface combined with, forgive the expression, a “full rectal vault,“ could contribute to difficulty draining.

Are you also having bladder spasms/strong urge to urinate? Is there a possibility you have any kind of infection?

I’m looking forward to what you find out from the others here.Foley care/ pain,I hope you figure it out, the only problem I've ever had has been with my pajamas kinking the hose or when my dog desires to lay on it.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
My T1 incomplete story (25 male),T2-t3 complete, thanks for sharing.My T1 incomplete story (25 male),Recovery is usually the most significant in the first couple of years. But I know I would have people still get recovery overtime.

One thing you can be grateful for is your recovery has been quick so usually people that recover quickly continue to get good returns.

So I hope that is the case for you.My T1 incomplete story (25 male),Thanks for sharing your story - glad to hear you're doing so well and regained so much.

While each SCI is unique, I experienced a similar outcome and 1 and a half years later am still working on getting my right foot to dorsiflex. 

SCIs at a young age are humbling wake up call for how precious life is.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Best alternative to Viagra,I've used cialis with ok effects but nothing has really worked for me and insurance doesn't cover any of it. I've been debating on doing the injections but I'm still on the fence.Best alternative to Viagra,best: trimix
cheapest: penis pump?
other: off brand sidenefal (sp?), chinese boner pills, herbal remedies..Best alternative to Viagra,Trimix for me works like a charm! 90$ and lasts like 6-9 months. Snd is super reliable once you get it down!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Tight Banding?,It’s pretty common in traumatic SCI - tends to happen at level of injury.  Whether it goes away or not is highly variable. I had it in acute rehab and they treated it as nerve pain but what actually helped was dry needling and myofascial massage (suggested by pt).Tight Banding?,Mine feels like an internal corset and I haven’t been able to find any more info on this or even be able to describe it well. It tends to come and go for me.,Okay, wait though.  No-one warned you about this in rehab?   I’m not asking to be a jerk, I am seriously shocked and flummoxed.,That's about how mine feels. Some days are worse than others. It also feels like a belt tide around my abdomen in two different areas.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
How to stay on insurance,Medicaid isn't insurance. It's really designed as free healthcare for poor people. The buy-in programs are great, but it still doesn't make Medicaid like regular insurance plans which almost never cover personal assistant services and have all sorts of additional costs. You're stuck with state rules on Medicaid.

Plenty of disabled people in the US live on just SSI, and that's like $12,000 or less. They live unstable and uncomfortable lives. You have to get government everything to exist. 

I wouldn't move if I were you. Unless you can make enough money to replace the support from the Medicaid benefits. You're definitely lucky where you are at right now.How to stay on insurance,Here’s another thing to consider about Utah - the waitlist for adult HCBS is 8 years.  You can qualify and get approved in weeks but funding is prioritized for children so you will not get funded until every single child who needs services and all adults who predate you on the list receive services.   If you need paid care, it will be out of pocket until you come up on the list.  Voc Rehab is the same situation, last I heard the waitlist is longer.  

I have friends and family there, there is fantastic rehab in SLC (Neuroworx), every single person I know there told me do not move to Utah unless you are independently wealthy forever.  

If you went to acute rehab in Colorado (Craig) call outpatient case management and ask them for suggestions.   You could try reaching out the SCI program at the U and see if they have any ideas.,Thanks for the advice! That is a really big help :)How to stay on insurance,Look if you need to move It and AZ. Are all back for the working disabled, for the disabled in general wait list for life,.  
Look if it is a red state stay out of it..  I am sorry to say it that way....  California is always good. And not list... For most things..Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Best bed for a busted old back?,If you can, get your doctor to refer you to an OT for some help figuring out your best options.  There are a lot of choices, surprisingly, and an OT may be able to get you a loaner or two to try out. 

I use an air mattress on a leggett and platt adjustable frame.  I have two fusions (c6-t2, (t8-l2) and 7 total laminectomies (t2-8).  I don’t thermoregulate well well and so all of the latex and memory foam options make me feel sticky and overheated.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Can my dad use a regular wheelchair?,Usually ATPs (Assistive Technology Professionals) write for these.  If you have a good OT, you might ask them for advice or suggestions.  Different states (if you’re in the US) often have nonprofits that have lightly used dme, including wheelchairs/travel chairs.Can my dad use a regular wheelchair?,For different models I would recommend contacting a specialist (durable medical equipment) who would be able to either show or recommend different companies.

As someone who is younger but has a higher level injury than your father, he absolutely can use a manual wheelchair. It is very important that he is comfortable in it for many hours.

My recommendation is get one that can tilt, so that he can recline easily. Second, a very high back so that resting becomes easy. Third, the cushion needs to be ROHO (or something similar) to prevent pressure sores. Fourth, consider a headrest. Fifth, remember to have extra padding for the armrest (elbows also develop sores).

Something you can look at (it has some features not all) – [https://www.sunrisemedical.co.uk/wheelchairs/quickie/tilt-in-space-wheelchairs/iris](https://www.sunrisemedical.co.uk/wheelchairs/quickie/tilt-in-space-wheelchairs/iris)

I personally use a motorized wheelchair, which has leg raising, back tilting, body tilting. It has a headrest and I use the ROHO back and cushion. The model I have is Quickie Q 700. Highly recommended. When he is tired it is very easy to recline and because it is solid it does not fell like it would accidentally tip. It can also be switched to a manual mode (not easy for long distance is but definitely doable for the house).

I hope both of you find the model you like. Good luck on the path to recovery!Can my dad use a regular wheelchair?,If your dad will be in the wheel chair for longer than an hour, borrow the seat cushion from the electric chair, and make sure to do a pressure break for 5 minutes every hour, to prevent pressure sores.,Thanks...yes we have a roho cushion!!Can my dad use a regular wheelchair?,It would have to have a pretty high back.Can my dad use a regular wheelchair?,Ask about getting a second controller for the back of the power chair. I think there is a way to control it from behind with a second controller. That's a better solution if he already has a well fitting chair. You might also find a way to move the controller from front to back.

https://mobilitymgmt.com/Articles/2015/06/01/Alternative-Driving-Controls.aspx?m=1&Page=2

You can disengage the motor and push, but you'll get tired fast and it's not safe on uneven ground.,Thank you! That is what we are doing for his “real” chair but I am trying to find a solution for the next 6 weeks or so until it comes!!Can my dad use a regular wheelchair?,Will the DME not loan you another chair until his comes in?  Or put an alternate driver setup on it for you?  Six weeks is really not long and getting into a manual chair w/tilt in space, unless you luck out with something used, is going to take a while.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Intermittent catheter,You are not alone! It takes some getting used to for sure and I would be amazed if anyone came out of a 20 minute training session totally able to do it themselves. Just keep trying. It’s helpful to have someone on hand while you’re learning cause sometimes the stress of needing to pee can make it even harder. Give it a couple try’s each time you have to cath and if it’s not working out this round, let your caregiver take over and try it again next time. You can even do it tandem where maybe your caregiver helps you prepare and get into position and you just do the actual insertion, or vice versa. 

I’m assuming they gave you a mirror during training so you can actually see what you’re doing, right? I know some people can cath by feeling alone but that takes a lot of practice.

Also let your OT know that you’re practicing self cath and they can give you some additional practice like putting a straw into a small hole. Idk your injury level but if your hands are impacted at all practicing that kind of precision is really helpful.,Thank you so much!!!!! I have a mirror at home I’m using, I tried again earlier and it was still quite painful but I’m determined to make it work 🤞🏻Intermittent catheter,While I’m not a female, after reading your post I felt like I needed to reply. I started intermittent catheterizing myself around a month ago. When they showed me how to do it in the office, I was so nervous that I was shaking and had a very difficult time getting it in. And for the first week I lived in dread of having to do it because it was so very uncomfortable. I started bleeding the first couple of days, which I was told can be a side effect of starting to catheter. But something happened after like a week or so. It just became very normal and really easy to do. I don’t think twice about it now, and it really is relieving to know there is an easy way to completely empty my bladder. I wish you the best of luck with it!Intermittent catheter,Hi, I also use ntermittent catheter and it requires patience even when you have a lot of practice... I have been doing it for 15 years and it still takes time and patience. 
What really helps me is to use a mirror that can be adjusted (I can send you a photo,just DM me your email) and a headlamp lol looks like I'm going to a cave but, having good light helps A LOT to find the urethra. Regarding the pain, use lidocaine to lubricate and anesthetize. And always wash your hands very well and clean the area to avoid UTIs.,Hi! I’m (20F) not OP but also really really struggling with the intermittent catheter, partly because my legs are an absolute pain in the butt to control. Are you able to cath in bathrooms/places outside home? Has it become normal and a pretty mundane practice for you? I feel so so discouraged because I can’t seem to master it and it feels like I’ll never reach that point of independence :(,Having a good light source is so important!Intermittent catheter,The pain might go away as you practice and get better at inserting it at the correct angle. Also, some catheters and lubricants are easier than others. The Coloplast speedicath are super slippery, and Bard's Magic 3 Go are soft and flexible.Intermittent catheter,You didn't exclude male comments, so I hope this is okay.  I shattered my back when I was 13.  My IC "training" was one nurse and about 5 minutes of stick it in the hole then wash it and you can put it in your pocket for use later (yeah really, times have changed in 30 years).

My only advice other than lots of lube, would be to relax as much as possible.  This can make a huge difference in the "clench" factor.  

One last thing, while you are learning it is best not to stretch the time between IC windows.  I have found the more full a bladder is, the more effort it takes to open sometimes.

Good luck.Intermittent catheter,Hey, I just started last November, I asked the exact same question on here too..here’s the link: https://www.reddit.com/r/spinalcordinjuries/comments/e3yykb/self_catheternewbie_looking_for_advice/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app&utm_name=iossmfIntermittent catheter,Geez, I took pics of my setup to give you ideas but I don't know how to post them. Ergh. I'm disabled (F) but not SCI, and I was an OTA who worked with folks who have SCI. I self-cath and have found ways to do it that really help me. Please tell me how to post pictures because they are worth 1k words.Intermittent catheter,Okay here's one item I took a pic of. 

https://www.amazon.com/Sammons-Preston-Catheterization-Paraplegics-Quadriplegics/dp/B06XTJVGGZ

I own this mirror and it goes with me everywhere in the backpack on my wheelchair. It's expensive I know, but I've not found another that works for me. 

I wrap it around my left leg (not too tight or you could hurt your skin or decrease circulation) and its great.Intermittent catheter,Here's another thing I use. Not exactly this one but very similar. Especially useful when transferring to toilet at home. Less useful for wheelchair cathing (see leg mirror by Sammons Preston for WC use). 

https://www.amazon.com/dp/B079NWHWNL/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_apa_fab_ic1EFbAGQRSZ0

I use something like this and I hang a cheap Goody mirror on it like this one:

https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00P74HAY8/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_apa_fab_Xf1EFb2YD5861

There's a bunch of these at Walmart. Whatever mirror you use has to have a bendy handle that holds the angle. 

I use a washcoth tied around the mirror's handle to help it stay put on the stand, but you could just as well duct tape it to the stand. This solution has worked well for me at home but I use the leg mirror when out and about. 

I tried several stand mirrors that you'd normally use on the countertop, but none were tall enough. Hence the adjustable height purse stand.

Hope that helps a little!!,I have to go get my feeding tube changed today (brings new meaning to "hold my feeding tube") and may not respond right away if you reply, but feel free to DM me if you need more ideas. I'll respond when I can.Intermittent catheter,I'm not a woman but four things I've learned:

* Even with the prelubed Magic3 Go, ADD LUBE -- Get a tube of Surgilube at a local pharmacy or KY Jelly and put a big gob of it on the end.
* If you get to the bladder muscle (sphincter) and can't go in, don't back out and push back in repeatedly. This causes trauma and hurts!
* Instead, when you find you are "knocking on the door", just hold the catheter in place with a little pressure and wait. Deep breaths in and fully out. Try to relax. I've had this take a solid 3 minutes before, but then suddenly the muscle finally lets go and you're in like Flynn.
* The most painless way to intermittent cath is laying down on a bed with pillows propping you up. As I'm still fairly new to this, I'm putting down an absorbent pad and have one of those 1 liter bedside urinals. It takes a little bit of coordination not to spill, thus the pad.

When I was cathing standing, sometimes it was fine with lots of coughing and throat-clearing to get past the various bends (women's urethra is a lot straighter whereas guys have to make a shallow turn and then a near 90 degree turn).  And sometimes it hurt like hell, I'd traumatize myself and even a blood clot once. Not good!! Laying on a bed and giving yourself plenty of time instead of rushing or getting impatient and pushing harder is what has worked for me.

Apparently there is some pelvic training (kegel) possible to teach not only tensing up but voluntary relaxing, which you need to cath consistently. I am to the point now where I have maybe 1 second of pain the entire time. It takes patience and relaxing.Intermittent catheter,Male here, Are you guys not using ky jelly?Intermittent catheter,heyo! i am quite young (sorry lol) and have just learned how to do my catheter myself during quarantine! all i can really say is that it takes time, i’ll edit this comment if i think of anything else to add :)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Thank You To Everyone,I am not in your shoes, but have a family member going thru a similar injury currently. If you ever need someone to vent to, feel free to shoot me a message.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Neuropathic Pain,Activity really helps me- small movements, stretching, exercise of any kind that involves weight bearing. Keeping warm is also beneficial. Hope you can find some relief,Since being home I’ve been doing some range of motion in the morning with my wife before she goes to work. It’s just not been this bad until today.Neuropathic Pain,How much gabapentin are you taking every day and when?,300 mg three times a day.Neuropathic Pain,There are other medications you can try, don't know if you've already run through them or not.  I found Lyrica (Pregabalin) to be superior to Gabapentin.  I'm also taking Topomax (Topiramate), which has reduced it as well.  It still gets pretty bad some days, but the stabby-ness has gone down.  I know that there are others, but these two are the ones that I've tried.

Edit: Someone's makin it rain in here,Thank you. I’m going to my primary doctor next week.  Maybe she can help. Being new to all this. It’s a lot different.Neuropathic Pain,I’ve been through all them and now use Duloxetine 120mg/day. Found it’s much more effective but not nearby so sedating. Short term try to move or massage or use a tens machine if u have one. Otherwise distraction can help if you can find something to occupy your mind it will reduce your awareness of it. Put your hand in ice water, that sort of thing can also help.

Good luckNeuropathic Pain,It can be a lot worse with temperature fluctuations and even humidity changes.  Staying warm really helps.  

Movement, massage, acupuncture, tens/nmes, tigers balm patches, hot pepper cream - all of those things were helpful to me.  I failed gabapentin and pregabalin, don’t tolerate opiates well, can’t take nsaids bc bleeding....,Thank you for the advice.Neuropathic Pain,I get it when I sit still for too long, cold also triggers it, but I found smoking weed that is not too high in THC helps for it. 
I don't take any meds for it,I’ve never really been a weed smoker but I’ve thought about trying it since my SCI.Neuropathic Pain,What I learned in the rehab hospital is to take something rough like a scratch pad or wool and rub skin with it and work your way to something smoother like silk and it relieves the neuropathy. I have a neuropathic itch in my elbows and I have to use it for that.Neuropathic Pain,Hi! I hope you are feeling a bit better!! For me, a hot water bottle helps (without the cover). Just have to make sure it’s not scalding hot (made that mistake a bunch of times). I didn’t find Gabapentin helped me at all unfortunately and I gave it a shot twice. At the moment I’m on dihydrocodiene and oxycodone and any breakthrough pain I take some ibuprofen. Wish I could be of more help, I know how much the pain sucks. It’s all you can focus on. Fingers crossed you get a bit more relief 🤞🏻Neuropathic Pain,Salt float pod.  Floating without any effort in warm water (and darkness should you want) is the only thing that keeps me sane when my nerve pain is at it's worst.  I started using a float pod last year and it has increased my quality of life.  Otherwise, maybe a hot bath might help if you are mobile enough to safely do so.

I have tried Gabapentin, and other neuropathic medications, with no luck.  All I did was gain weight and make things even harder on my back,Okay, this is pretty genius.  I used to go do sensory deprivation tanks just to turn my brain off, I love getting in the pool, I don’t know why this hasn’t occurred to me or anyone who puts up with me.  Thank you so much. I am not OP, obvs, but thank you!Neuropathic Pain,I got off gabapentin and all neuropathic pain drugs. Still use a weak opioid but when possible I try to distract myself with physical action or just taking my focus away. 

I also found roller bars/roller balls ([mine](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B01FHYA28I/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o08_s00?ie=UTF8&psc=1)) help me out a bit, no idea why but it hurts like hell when doing it but ten, twenty minutes after it calms down and can help avoid my pain meds.,The roller bars/textured foam rollers were suggested in rehab as some combination of they move the muscles enough to relax them but better yet stimulate the nerves into firing normally for a while, which is so great.  I haven’t used mine in a while but my shoulder is acting up - this is a great reminder and a suggestion - thanks!Neuropathic Pain,If you’re in a state where it’s legal, try and find a decent dispensary (probably not a chain) and get topical CBD that is not hemp derived and has been decarboxylated.  You need the entourage effect from the other cannabinoids and they’re much more effective when decarboxylated.  It can be hard to find, but ime works really well for nerve pain.Neuropathic Pain,As bad as it hurts at first a shower with light scrubbing with a sponge on the area really helps me. Then cover it in Lidocaine cream.Neuropathic Pain,Try acupuncture. It’s not something you need to do everyday, but even once or twice a month it can have lasting effects. It’s how I got off norcoPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Fucked up :/,Hey, Same here I‘m a C5 paraplegic since march 
Life is pretty fucked up right nowPosted Question, Comment, Reply
UC Davis Engineers Lead $36M Effort to Improve Recovery From Spinal Cord Injuries,Haha, that's my school!UC Davis Engineers Lead $36M Effort to Improve Recovery From Spinal Cord Injuries,SCI cure via PowerPoint?

Seriously, drawing a diagram is one thing. But the spinal cord isn't a bundle of wires. It's a bunch of *living* cells. SCIs don't just sever the connection between the cells, they damage, break and destroy the cells themselves. When the cells are damaged enough or just dead, they no longer respond to external stimuli in the desired way.

You'd have to record the activity at some place above the injury (including the brain) and then stimulate the muscle groups directly, as the connection from the spinal cord to the muscle may no longer be functional.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Have any of you ever had any experience getting a grant for making accessibility changes to a home? Just bought a house.,Most of the foundations that do grants like this are highly regionally specific and require that the referral for an application comes from a social worker who can verify that you have exhausted all other resources.  Sometimes if you can get the equipment discounted or lightly used, volunteers of america will help out with the labor but you are responsible for all materials.,Yeah, I kinda figured that might be the case.  Thought I'd at least try to see what was out there.  I don't work with a social worker or anything like that.  I'm just a dude in a wheelchair buying a house and putting my feelers out.Have any of you ever had any experience getting a grant for making accessibility changes to a home? Just bought a house.,Medicaid waivers paid for my home mods. Milage will vary by state, this was Montana.,Greetings from your neighbor in the state to your east.  I'm assuming you have to be on Medicaid to get such a thing?Have any of you ever had any experience getting a grant for making accessibility changes to a home? Just bought a house.,The virus caused an injury to your spinal cord, did it not? I think it would count,Unfortunately the foundation in question doesn't consider it an injury.  It's unfortunate, but it's their right to do so.  The cause of my paralysis isn't listed specifically, but it would fall under the category of other types they don't allow.  This was from their website:

Applicants must be paralyzed from a physical spinal cord injury to qualify for consideration. People with paralysis due to a congenital or other health condition, including (but not limited to) stroke, traumatic brain injury, spina bifida, cerebral palsy, multiple sclerosis, post-polio, Guillain-Barre´ Strohl Syndrome, ALS, all other neuropathies, and all other conditions causing disability are NOT eligible.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Headed Home From Spinal Cord Rehabilitation,My injury is different but if I was to give someone advice that recently became in a similar situation as I am (c4 complete quadriplegic). 

Keep drinking water and still do your range of motion at least your legs, and feet. Besides that just be you.

I was still a teenager when I became paralyzed so I continued doing what I was doing. Going to school and partying. So all that worlds best rehab shit went right out the door. If I kept up with my range of motion and staying hydrated I wouldn’t be in so much pain today. 

My injury was right before 9/11 so the whole nation was different, when I got home from rehab I didn't stick out much. With everything going on right now, you probably won't stick out much either. People will just be happy to see you.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
23 y/o BIL just became a para,Spend some time with him. Bonus points if he likes doing something like gaming that can be done in the hospital. One of the saddest things about this part in his life is that he feels like he will never be happy again. Just knowing that people will still want to hang out with him and have a good time is a great way to bring up his spirits.,that's a great idea about the gaming system!  I picked up some magazines, but that's even better. thank you.23 y/o BIL just became a para,There is nothing you can do. All hope is lost.

Just kidding. :)

I was 23 when I was paralyzed and had recently celebrated my second anniversary. My wife did not know what to do or say, but was kind, patient and understanding. She listened well. Because of her support I was able to achieve phenomenal things in my life, allowing me to enjoy life in a way that I would have not thought possible at the time.

We will celebrate 42 years together in November.

Just by listening and showing empathy you can really help. Simply be there for him.,I love your attitude!!  thanks for sharing your part of your story.23 y/o BIL just became a para,One of the things that made a huge difference for me is to just treat him like normal. It got really old when someone would talk to me with a slight tone of pity in their voice. Yeah, it sucks, trust me I am PAINFULLY aware of that. Just talk to me like normal, some of the only times I felt more or less normal when I was still in the hospital was when friends would come to visit and we would talk, joke, play some instruments, and watch TV/movies like normal. Be patient with his new physical limitations, but just make sure you remember he's still the same person, just in a chair now.23 y/o BIL just became a para,I was 16 when I became a quad and I got exhausted pretty fast by people wanting to talk about everything. I really hated when people thought they couldn't act normal around me. A lot of people were afraid that I would be really sensitive about it but they didn't know what they could or couldn't say or do. Just follow his lead and pay attention, he'll show or tell you what he needs. If he won't talk about his injury, talk about other things. If he wants to, then talk about it. 

If he's really discouraged about his future or overly focused on walking (some new SCIs get so obsessed with walking again that they miss the other good stuff in life), I don't think there's anything wrong with trying to help him be more positive. People with SCI, regardless of level of function, can participate in sports, have families, have jobs, go to school, travel, pretty much whatever they want to do. Shit is hard at first but we all figure it out eventually. Right now, he probably just needs people to be kind and patient and not afraid of doing something "wrong".,this is great advice!  I've stopped asking how he's doing every.single.time we speak now and have instead started sharing the day or funny moments - whatever comes up. I think it's helped to brighten both our days - if that makes any sense?23 y/o BIL just became a para,It all depends. Offer to help but don't be pushy.,does encouragement get old after awhile, or does it depend on the person?  right now, I'm just listening - trying to give him the space he needs to process.23 y/o BIL just became a para,Something I went through was anger about my new situation and obviously I needed help now with normal day to day things but I didn't want to feel like a burden. So my suggestion to you is to be patient with him and forgiving if he does get difficult.23 y/o BIL just became a para,Point out that he will be able to take care of himself and be independent. That helped me alot during the darkest days.23 y/o BIL just became a para,If he doesn't have one already, consider getting some people to throw in together for a Nintendo Switch.  Anything to take his mind off of his situation, and it's easily portable and multiplayer (if you get the more expensive one) if he's still in the hospital.

If he has one, get him a new game or some gift cards for the Nintendo shop.23 y/o BIL just became a para,32 y/o new paraplegic as well. 6 months now. As far as I can say so far. I’m dealing with every emotion imaginable so I’m not sure what anyone can say. That’s just my opinion.,has anything helped bring peace of mind?23 y/o BIL just became a para,How old is he? And what he enjoys doing? Everyone is different, but to feel people care about you and got your back definitely helps.,a young 23.23 y/o BIL just became a para,For you, and, more importantly, for your brother-in-law, I would recommend starting to educate yourself on the information and resources available at the [Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation](https://www.christopherreeve.org/get-support). They have fantastic support for patients, their doctors, caregivers and family members as you look into the future, and it has made a huge difference for me, my Dr.'s, and for my family– who, through no fault of their own, also became part of my journey. I wish you the best of luck, and hang in there.,I've only touched the surface, but wow!  this is a great resource!  thank you for sharing.23 y/o BIL just became a para,thank you all for the advice/suggestions!  I have some direction now; I really appreciate you guys.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Free Webinar! Adjustment to SCI!,Thank you so much for sharing this. I had no idea adjustment webinars were going on. Way to spread positivity among the group :)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Outpatient, new home needed,Wide doorways, small thresholds, low cabinets, no carpets.......I guess, I personally like carpet in some of my rooms though. Wishing all the best for your brother.,Thank you!!!,Carpets ok.. no mats thoughOutpatient, new home needed,Larger bedroom and bathroom so there's room for the bed/shower and toilet but also room to maneuver around them in a chair.

You may want to watch these wheelchair youtubers show off their homes for other ideas and things to consider:

https://youtu.be/7dBA3bLr6cQ

https://youtu.be/sXfeq8IlraE,Good advice.  He may need a lot of equipment, like a hospital bed, Hoyer lift, shower chair - you need extra storage and maneuvering room.Outpatient, new home needed,Walk in shower is way easier to put a shower chair in.Outpatient, new home needed,This is a short video about 7 minutes long and discussed 21 helpful home modifications:  [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-ACI\_lkxSiE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-ACI_lkxSiE)  Everyone has unique needs/preferences and of course location budget play a role, but the ideas will get you thinking. =

This is a podcast that discusses a lot of different aspects of moving home (kind of long at nearly 1.5 hours, and the audio isn't perfect as it is one of our first podcasts but hopefully the information is helpful)  [https://www.spinalcord.com/sci-life-uncovered/episode-2](https://www.spinalcord.com/sci-life-uncovered/episode-2)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Lost,I too am sorry to hear about your pain. I’m a L1 burst fracture which gives me spasms and muscle pain. I’m on Gabapentin but it’s a subtle pain relief. I use Tizanidine when the pain is too much. Marijuana is legal here (California USA) but I’m not ready to go that  route-yet. I have lower back pain from it’s compensation due to weak glutes and hamstring   I’ve start using a back brace (store bought) to isolate and relax my back. It’s helped greatly. Best of luck.,Thank you so much! I’ve been referred to orthotics so I’m hoping maybe they can recommend some kind of brace to help! Thanks so much for taking the time to reply, I appreciate it ☺️Lost,I had post traumatic tethered cord which caused lengthening syrinxes. Have had multiple surgeries and therefore eleven total laminectomies, so many muscles no longer properly attached, tend to bunch and knot up weirdly.  No luck with opiates, gabapentin/pregabalin, don’t tolerate nsaids bc bleeds.  Have had most success with: dry needling (hurts a lot while happening, and then no more pain for days), topical CBD (not from hemp, needs to be decarboxylated), capasician (sp? hot pepper extract, anyway) cream, tiger’s balm patches, tens/nmes units.   Getting my electrolytes jacked up or b vitamins low will wreck me for a couple of days.,Thank you so much for responding. Is dry needling similar to acupuncture? I’ve been looking into trying it to se rig it helps!Lost,Hey! I’m a t4 complete para from an RTC, so not quite in the same boat, but here’s my tuppence anyway; have you looked at sports massage? It can help to relieve that deep seated muscle tension and could possibly give you relief from spasms. It works for me, I take a lot of painkillers including morphine and gabapentin but I honestly would say the best change I made to my life for the better is getting a decent sports therapist.,Thank you so much! I actually haven’t- I’m going to look into it today!! Thanks so much for taking the time to respond ☺️Lost,Hello- I’m a recent T12 burst fracture patient (8 weeks post op) with moderate nerve damage on my right side. I have some very similar pain sensations that you are experiencing. I was taking LOTS of oxy but have now been completely off for two weeks. I was able to ween off of them with tylenol, cbd drops and medical marijuana drops (legal in CA). I still definitely have pain but it is way more manageable and have just started seeing a PT specialized in “counter strain” which has helped me tremendously-I recommend looking into it. Also along with acupuncture and massage therapy. I had to wear a TSLO brace which did help relax my muscles but severely increased my nerve pain in my right side. I wish you the best of luck.Lost,I'm really sorry to hear that you're in so much pain, I hope you can find something that works for you. Have you tried pregabalin? I found that pregabalin helped me a lot more than gabapentin did.,Hey! Thanks for responding. I haven’t tried Pregablin actually- how was the weight gain on it? That’s another thing I have to be careful of too. I’ve heard a few horror stories 😞Lost,Hi, I have tethered cords. I am familiar with that type of pain. There is research that a combination of ibuprofen and Tylenol can be more effective than other drugs. Obviously, you know your pain best. I would say try for a second opinion but I am unsure of how it works in the UK. 


Also, I had a tethered cord surgery that left me an incomplete paraplegic but mainly the loss of function that I have is what I lost before the surgery. So to me getting rid of the burning pain was way worth it for my quality of life.,Thanks so much for taking time to reply, I appreciate it.  I’ve found paracetamol and ibuprofen can help bridge the gap in between taking my next round of painkillers sometimes, but not strong enough on their own unfortunately 😞Lost,I'm a C-7 injury without bone involvement and have a Syrinx that formed in the scar tissue. I have severe chronic pain as a result. To treat that I have an implanted intrathecal pump that doses morphine into the spinal canal and a neurostimulator. I use CBD for breakthrough pain.

I've also learned that those of us with chronic pain do not react to pain normally. We tend to get a lot of pain that is due to our muscles knotting up "Guarding" areas where you experience pain. A massage can leave my back pain free for 2 or 3 days. I can't afford to do that very often though.,Thanks so much! I have been looking into sports massage as my knots are huge and so painful but they are ALL over my back. £80 for 60 mins is not cheap either 😞Posted Question, Comment, Reply
T12 burst fracture,I was in a TLSO for 4 months but after 3 I started taking it off in the shower,Did you have surgery as well? Or were you able to heal with just the braceT12 burst fracture,I’m 8 months out and am feeling better now. Takes a long time to heal,That is back pain wise... I did not have any nerve damageT12 burst fracture,I am about 6 months out.  Gave up the brace around 4 months.  The pain and nerve problems are still there,Did you have a fushion done as well?T12 burst fracture,Well I also have a T12 burst fracture with a fusion T11-L1 so I'd say similar. I've got an incomplete cord injury, but certainly wasn't up and walking the day after surgery. I was in my brace for about 5/6 months I think, it was 13 years ago so not 100% on timings, but injury was June fairly certain until November/December. 

If you want to talk more about the psychological side of returning to your "normal" I'm happy to talk privately. I'd say that stuff is all very specific to the individual though. In terms of if I made it to a "normal" I'd say 100%, everyone I know that has gone through an injury like this it just becomes their normal eventually.,Would love to chat about your injury and recoveryPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Hiya. (I don't know if I fit in here).,I don’t think anyone who is telling the truth can tell you it’s for sure going to be okay.

What I can tell you is that it is possible to build a life, even a chronically excellent life, amidst medical catastrophe.  You are in a very scary situation and also it is manageable.  You can get good care and even with a bad outcome, you can make a good life.  

I have had a chain of medical catastrophes, mostly to do with my spine, and while there are some ways in which I have gotten lucky I have also really battled for that luck.  Sometimes I have dialed, sometimes I have broken even, and sometimes I have had resounding success. 

It is valuable to be stubborn and inquisitive and skeptical.  Ask all the questions until you understand the answers and feel confident in your understanding and then? Check your understanding with a whole new person.  Ask for help.  Get lots of help queued up for you, your mom and your sister.  More help than seems reasonable. 

I am sorry that you are having to contend with this.  It is indeed scary.,Thank you. You helped me calm down quite a bit. I think seeing how fast my mom declined after a failed surgery and everything really had me freaked out. Especially with my sister, because I always knew I would have custody of her my entire life but there was never any question about whether or not I could physically take care of her in the future. Now there's an unknown with my neck. Just because my mom went down one road with her care, that doesn't mean mine will follow the same suit. I'm still going to make a plan in case something does happen to me. Like who would get my sister, and ect. 

I feel like an idiot though because when I started my job a few years ago they offered LTD, and I was like I'm young and nothing bad will never happen to me, I don't need that. Well dang, I have regrets.Hiya. (I don't know if I fit in here).,> Can someone who is kind of going through the same thing tell me it's going to be ok?

If the surgery goes well (it should as it is a fairly standard procedure), it's very likely going to be ok.,Thank youHiya. (I don't know if I fit in here).,If I was in your shoes, I wouldn’t put the surgery off. 

My dad recently became paralyzed from the waist down due to stenosis and bone spurs in his spinal column. He dove off his boat one day and the angle and impact of hitting the water caused one of the bone spurs to damage the spinal cord enough to cause total paralysis of the lower body. He had excruciating neck and back pain for years and ignored the signs. 

They did surgery in his C1-C7 to help save the use of his upper body, and now we are just waiting to see if the bruised/compressed cord heals enough for him to get any function or mobility back in his lower body. It’s been 2 months and he has gotten sensation and feeling back into his legs and back. 

I do believe people with paralysis can still live a great fulfilling life, but if you can prevent something that serious, I’m sure you’d want to. This situation truly made me believe that things happen for a reason even though it may not make sense to us in the moment. I do believe the universe has a greater plan for us and we just need to trust the process.,I'm so sorry about your dad :( I'm still probably going to wait until December or January for the surgery due to school unless something looks horrible with my next follow up. I also have to get some ducks in a row in case the worst possible thing happens. Especially with a special needs kid and everything.  But I'm not going to put it off for years or anything like that.

Yeah pharmacy school was in my future, but I'm going to have to back that up and maybe look at something else. Maybe biostats. A nice desk job where I don't have to worry about dropping chemo or oxy.Hiya. (I don't know if I fit in here).,I am new to all of this and so maybe the information is not exactly correct. I also want to point out that I am extremely lucky because of my injury location and I have full motor control with no loss of mobility. I am expected to be able to return back to my life 100%. Thats not a brag at all. This whole injury has changed my look at life in general. I just want to give my input on the surgery itself.

AFTER saying all that I also want to point out that on September 25th I had a laminectomy and fusion of my C4-5. I broke my neck from an accident in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu on 9/11, the day before my 34th birthday. I dont have the stenosis or anything like that. I more just wanted to let you know that I had the surgery a few weeks back, stayed overnight, and went home the next day. Today I am still wearing my brace and will for another few weeks but I feel almost pain free(as long as I dont do any quick movements).

Goodluck with it all and I am hoping for the best for you.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Indwelling cath dangers?,Spinal nurse here, we never recommend indwelling caths to be in long term due to erosion. Have you ever talked with your doctor about a suprapubic catheter? They're usually easier to manage compared an IDC and it removes the risk of urethral erosion. With an SPC you could also then spigot it (not sure of the US term, basically cap/block it off) if you wanted to start trying intermittent caths again, the opening also closes up very quickly so easily reversed should you decide to do solely intermittent.,Wow, my doctor and I never talked about SPC before but it looks super invasive! I don’t think I’ll want to go down that route but thank you for your comment!Indwelling cath dangers?,There's a list of reasons why IC is the first option compared to foley: fewer infections (needs to be done cleanly, and still sometimes happens anyways), lower risk for bladder cancer (either way should probably start cancer screening after 5-10 years), the bladder can down shrink around the foley over time, having a tube going through your genitals isn't great for sexuality, over time urethra can potentially get wider over time, risk of trauma if it gets pulled. But foley can make things much more convenient for some. If the leaking was the biggest problem, make sure you tried different medications and/or botox, before resorting to a foley.,Oh wow, no one discussed with me about all these before. My hospital just told me to do this and that and I just followed. Thank you for your comment and I think I’ll switch back to IMC soon.Indwelling cath dangers?,I think Attaboy3 has a great list of cons. I would add that indwelling catheters can also get plugged/clogged and there is the risk of leaking the bag. That being said, I think a lot of it comes down to personal preference on which you would rather deal with. I personally would prefer an indwelling catheter for ease of use, even if I could intermittent cath (which I can't).,Oh? Don’t mind me asking but how come you can use intermittent cath? Indwelling is really super convenient and I’m so reluctant to change to intermittent 😫Indwelling cath dangers?,They can make you bladder really small, since it won’t be holding any liquids anymore. Making it very hard if you were to ever not want it anymore. 

I get Botox injections into my bladder. My urologist recommended them to me and now I recommend to anyone. My bladder holds decent amount with no leaks. Just have to get the injections every 5 months or so.Indwelling cath dangers?,Did you try external/condom cath?,Nope, I don’t think my country has this (Singapore). Was checking various pharmacies before for the different types of cath and they only have foley or the normal tubes.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Cervical spinal contusion,If you had a fall, you probably do have a contusion , if that’s what the MRI showed. MS would be doubtful if you hadn’t had symptoms prior, especially with only one lesion. I don’t know how long it’s been, but give it time to heal. It’s slooooooooow. Sounds like you’ve made some good progress already, so that’s encouraging. It’s ok for you to feel weird sensations when you move your body in certain ways- everyone’s experience is different with what they perceive or feel from their injuries. Don’t expect to rush through recovery. Best of luck and please post again if you have more questions.,Thank you for the response and the insight, I really appreciate it.Cervical spinal contusion,You know, this just occurred to me, but Craig hospital has a nurse advice line.  You could also reach out to them and see if the nurses there (who tend to be pretty highly specialized in spinal cord injury and neuro rehab) can give you more information or direct you to other resources.,Thank you for the recommendation, but I am in Canada so not sure they would speak to me. I will absolutely investigate it though!!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I'm a doctor working in rehabilitation medicine and I'm part of an initiative that attempts to set standards for mental health support during both the acute phase admission and the follow up visits. Do you guys have recommendations on how we could improve?,Talk more and more honestly about sex and sexual function (including fertility) after SCI.,Please, please, please do this! No one talked to us at all about sex and fertility. Everything we found out was from google and the WAGS support group.,^  this!! Its literally different for everyone and no patient wants to talk about it.I'm a doctor working in rehabilitation medicine and I'm part of an initiative that attempts to set standards for mental health support during both the acute phase admission and the follow up visits. Do you guys have recommendations on how we could improve?,Relationship advice!  So many of us have difficulties in our marriages/relationships afterwards.  I was 22 yo when I was injured, my then-fiance had just turned 21.  We had NO idea how to deal with it.  We could have really used advice on how to move through the grief together.  He was the one who actually caused the car accident, so there was a huge amount of baggage for us.  We simply didn't have the tools to handle it, even though we were deeply in love.

And don't forget about the sex.  Many of us experience severe changes in our sex lives, and this can be extremely hard to accept, for both men and women.  Sex is the spice of life, and of most relationships, and it can be terrifying to think of losing it or having it severely reduced.  

I also hope you have female therapists on staff for the women to talk to (if they want).  I'm aware that, on average, we only make up about 20% of SCIs, but don't forget about us!,Yes! I totally agree with this. We actually had SCI classes in Rehab when I was in the hospital, and one of the classes was on sex education after injury. The only information they had for women was, “you can still get pregnant, don’t worry!“ And then the rest of the hour was about how guys can still get it up and what tools they might be able to use. 

Like… I don’t want to get pregnant, I want to know what I might expect out of sex going forward. Like, should I just assume that I need extra lube? Is there a risk of autonomic dysreflexia during sex? What do I need to be cautious about? Is there a chance that I could ever experience an orgasm again? 

I have no fucking idea, but I do know about all the ways SCI guys can still have one. So don’t worry, it’s all good. /sI'm a doctor working in rehabilitation medicine and I'm part of an initiative that attempts to set standards for mental health support during both the acute phase admission and the follow up visits. Do you guys have recommendations on how we could improve?,There is a lot of good information here, so I will give you my memory from 23 years ago, my anniversary being yesterday. My concern was discussion of fertility, it was about one sentence and couldn't have been more awkward if it was with a sanitation engineer, rather than my father or a physician. I was asked only once if preserving some DNA was interesting to me, at the age of 16, in front of far too many people to feel confident about giving an honest answer. The physicality of that aspect of life was also omitted, but another commenter has spoke to that so I will leave it therefore this topic.

The other thing that bothered me at the time was the endless worst case scenario talk. I recognized the level of my injury. But on the night that I arrived at the hospital that would treat my broken neck, the neurosurgeon resident, one is still working in this city, I have seen not that long ago, and told my parents that what you see is what you get. Well, neurologically I recovered a lot from that. And obviously being in rehabilitation you know that when taught well, a person can do a lot with very little function. Even the social worker assigned to me felt like she was more interested in getting me to cry than to work on the logistics of renovating my parents house so I could return home when I was done at the hospital, getting me measured for a wheelchair and getting that thing ordered, and all the other actionable answers to her questions of what I would like to think about.

Obviously depression is a large factor after a traumatic injury, but my follow-through is what it always had been, in my short 16 years. My goals were to work through my emotions with the people that I trusted and get the ball rolling again so I could get back to whatever my life is going to look like. Laying in bed crying was not going to make things better any faster. Accomplishing something, feeling like work is being done towards getting me back to Independence, and going home is what I needed and she absolutely never got that.

Those were inpatient situations. After being discharged, and in a city 250 km away, there was virtually no follow-up. Spinal Cord Injury Saskatchewan, formerly Canadian Paraplegic Association - Saskatchewan chapter, had peer support programs in place, but were incredibly limited at the time. They are slightly better now, but not much. And, type of mental health care in our Province and country is abysmal, to say the least. So any work you could do on that front, as to improve western medicine best practices, would be fantastic!

I hope that this helped out and that your work goes very well. Check in with us once you have something else to ask or share. These are the types of posts I find fulfilling to contribute to.,I love your answer. Thank you!I'm a doctor working in rehabilitation medicine and I'm part of an initiative that attempts to set standards for mental health support during both the acute phase admission and the follow up visits. Do you guys have recommendations on how we could improve?,One more thing, just to echo u/nonnumousetail: I had a similar experience in my rehab regarding women's sex ed.  I was excited when sex ed day came around, only to be told, along with the other women in rehab, that the class was only for the men.  Us women were given a pamphlet on fertility and pregnancy, and something about how cuddling and holding hands were still important.  The word "orgasm" wasn't even mentioned anywhere in it.

Nothing else.  I was shocked.  I felt like my sexuality meant nothing; it wasn't even important enough to warrant a few minutes of class time.  But in my traumatized and weakened state, I was in no place to fight back.  I feel myself wanting to cry just remembering it.

Talk to us about orgasms, clitoral and G-spot (mine switched post-SCI), and the percentage of women who are able to orgasm.  Modified sex toys for those of us with limited hand function.  Lubrication.  Positioning.  Vaginal atrophy, and ways to deal with it.  Possible AD.  Safe sex still being important.  Making good choices even though our self-esteem may be shot. Visual signs of STDs and vaginal infections for those of us with loss of genital sensation.  Devotees (wheelchair fetishists -- pros and cons).I'm a doctor working in rehabilitation medicine and I'm part of an initiative that attempts to set standards for mental health support during both the acute phase admission and the follow up visits. Do you guys have recommendations on how we could improve?,If possible - have a few of your previous patients come in and talk real life strategies with people with new injuries. 

Involve the families in your discussions. During my other half’s hospitalization I was never involved in discussions about what our life was going to look like moving forward. While the injury is obviously devastating to the patient, it’s also a huge adjustment to their spouses and families. It would have been such an eye opening experience to talk to a couple that had gone through what we were experiencing at that time. 

Good luck on your project! It’s so needed and will help so many people.,I went to two different facilities (both very highly rated) one after the initial injury and the other two years later after a surgery impacted my function. 

The first facility had many many many hours of lovely videos to watch while you lay in bed.  Many.  Well produced, nicely written, attractively cast.  And watching those videos counted as “education”, which freed up nurses, OTs and PTs to provide care and therapies, explained the docs.  But videos don’t give family experience providing care, don’t provide any opportunities for asking questions  and they don’t teach injured folks how to describe and ask for what they need. I left that world famous hospital terrified and desperate and incompetent. 

Facility two had small group classes for the injured, their SOs and families on things like how to get up off the floor when you fall; advocating for yourself when hospitalized; cleaning catheters and bop tools: bleach solution vs vinegar solution; how to make your bowel program not take three hours; sexuality and sex workers and devotees.  I left feeling more competent, less frightened and more optimistic than since before the initial injury.I'm a doctor working in rehabilitation medicine and I'm part of an initiative that attempts to set standards for mental health support during both the acute phase admission and the follow up visits. Do you guys have recommendations on how we could improve?,P.S. Do you have a link to your program, or could you tell us about the areas you already cover?  It's hard to see where you should improve if we don't know what you're already doing.,We are still in the baby stages so i don't have a link. We are rehab doctors, nurses, psychologists and psychiatrists from centers around the country trying to figure out what we could be doing better.

We think that in the same way that there's a routine for when to check your kidneys, there should be a routine for mental health check ups, screening for depression, anxiety and substance abuse. As well as getting you better prepared for what happens when you leave the hospital, after your rehab goals are achieved.

We are coming up with a list of suggestions and hopefully management will enforce some of them. It might be simple things like staff and patient education or questions to ask when you come for your follow-up. And I really hope we can do decent job :)I'm a doctor working in rehabilitation medicine and I'm part of an initiative that attempts to set standards for mental health support during both the acute phase admission and the follow up visits. Do you guys have recommendations on how we could improve?,I had (successfully) medicated mental health issues when I was injured and I also sustained a  TBI.  It was a battle to continue to receive mental health meds while in acute care, the PM&R docs didn’t know/discuss/disclose interactions between the psych meds I was on and the opiates and gabapentin/pregabalin they enthusiastically prescribed.  It was deeply frustrating.  Referrals from inpatient & outpatient case management for mental health care and for TBI followup have been extremely challenging to obtain and inaccurate.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Advice,I was depressed before and I'm still depressed. So for me the feeling hasn't changed. I've been fighting for disability will no success. Oh, I recieved nerve damage during surgery nearly 8 years ago. I just had my second surgery 3 months ago and I'm still sore. My legs constantly tingle and my muscles twitch all the time. I had to learn how to walk again after my first surgery. Great that I can walk, but I can't do it for long. I can't sit for too long either. 

You're right. It's not just a physical thing. I'll add onto your advice. No matter how bad it is for you someone out there has it worse and they're making it work. That means you can too. You control your happiness and all it takes is finding one thing. Even the smallest thing. Find that thing and before long you'll find another and another. Just never lose hope and never give up. You made it this far, you can make it the rest of the way.Advice,Something that often happens to people with SCI, especially those of us who acquired our injuries suddenly, is we deal with PTSD.  This can show up in other, more subtle ways than the ones we see in the movies -- nightmares and flashbacks.  Some of these other ways can include:

*Emotional numbing (difficulty feeling more intense emotions, positive or negative)

*Short temper/Irritability

*Trouble focusing

*Memory issues

*Anxiety/Increased startle response

*Depersonalization (feeling "out of yourself", or experiencing your actions or thoughts from a distance, [chronic or acute episodes])

*Social isolation

*Mistrust of others

It's taken me a long time -- 20 years -- to get help for my own PTSD.  I'm seeing a therapist that specializes in trauma and EMDR.  My personality changed after my car accident, and I always blamed it on, you know, becoming paralyzed, and being in physical pain, and being outcast by society.  While all these things contributed to my state of mind, PTSD has also had a big hand in it, and I'm just now admitting/finding out how much.  I hope by listing the lesser-known symptoms above I can maybe help someone else who's been stuck just like I've been for so many years.  

Because for many of us, simply telling ourselves to get better isn't enough.  Knowing what to do isn't the same as being able to do it, especially when it comes to mental health.,I am having all of the symptoms listed, but aren't they all also depression symptoms? Every day when feeling the emotional numbness I think less of myself for just not feeling love and compasion towards overs.. I think I am a bad person and it makes me sad, but I find theres nothing I can do.Advice,The struggle is real! Your attitude really is everything.  You have to allow yourself to have some bad days. Puts all the good ones in perspective. Grief is absolutely a lifelong process.  It's all a process. 

 Sometimes I even say out loud to myself… no matter what has happened the most important and powerful things of myself remain - my voice, my mind... I can **still** be in control of my thoughts. No matter what else has been stripped. 

 The best piece of advice I can ever give is to never let it all bottle up. Talk it out, write it out, ride it out. Keep your mind as free as you can.

 Happy to see you recognize the importance of mental health. Good vibes to all of you!Advice,My rock bottom was 2-3 years after my injury (6y now). Don't let yourself devolve, I went full on hoarders mess, while not addressing my popped air bladder for my wheelchair seat. The latter led to a stage 4 pressure sore and about a year in full bedrest.Advice,If could start a new hobby,that would make you living in today.Maybe meet new people also that don't remind you of your old self.

Have to mentioned that Vitamin D,St. John Hort and exercise help a lot with mild depression!Advice,That is really rough. =\  I was injured early in life (at 6 months old), so can't actually remember it or anything before it and therefore don't really have the same issue.

That said, I didn't fully accept my injury until I was in my mid 20s, so I spent a lot of time just denying it was even an issue which was definitely not healthy and kept me from living my life to the fullest.Advice,Full disclosure, I am currently on bedrest in hospital with a pressure sore, other bladder complications, and orthopaedic surgery. Yet, I am at the happiest point since my injury, 10 years on. Happy about my life, considering relationships and moving to a suitable accommodation, and fully employed. I'm only on lowest dose of antidepressants it's purely for anxiety of hospital. You are only two years in, I had severe depression and PTSD and wasn't taking any antidepressants. First thing I did was to get over relationships, and next was to get thinking of what is next and that was employment. Listening to western Buddhist lectures, Jack Kornfield for example, really helped my mental health with something to focus on like a purpose, finding hobbies that I could do without needing assistance. YMMV.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Really bad looking mri, spinal cord is completely pinched off. But I feel like I'm improving with much less, moderate pain. Urgent surgery needed?,This is a question to discuss with your surgeon. No one here can give you medical opinions.Really bad looking mri, spinal cord is completely pinched off. But I feel like I'm improving with much less, moderate pain. Urgent surgery needed?,Considering this is a decision that could impact your mobility for the rest of your life, please don't take advice from the internet. Every SCI is different so what works for one person may not work for another, even if they have similar injuries.

Talk to your surgeon, get a second opinion if you feel it's necessary, but leave the advice for this up to medical professionals who've actually seen your full case.Really bad looking mri, spinal cord is completely pinched off. But I feel like I'm improving with much less, moderate pain. Urgent surgery needed?,Familiarize yourself with the red flags of cauda equina syndrome, a rare disorder that requires immediate emergency attentionReally bad looking mri, spinal cord is completely pinched off. But I feel like I'm improving with much less, moderate pain. Urgent surgery needed?,No one can give you medical advice here, but I agree that you should do some reading about cauda equina syndrome and talk to your surgeon/GP/consultant about it. I have cauda equina where my disk slipped into my spinal cord; I had emergency surgery from one of the top hospitals in the country, but nearly four years on I still have paralysis in my left leg, walk with crutches and use intermittent self-catheterisation. 

I was in quite a lot of pain until my disk slipped and then I had no feeling from the waist down. (I'm not suggesting that's what happening in your case, just saying that pain isn't always a good indicator!) Also if you notice any changes in your bladder control, go to a hospital immediately; that's often one of the first signs of cauda equina.,appreciate you taking the time to write your responseReally bad looking mri, spinal cord is completely pinched off. But I feel like I'm improving with much less, moderate pain. Urgent surgery needed?,I’d have surgery if you have ongoing neurological impairment due to compression of spinal cord.,I don't think I have any symptoms of neurological deficit anymore and will be delaying if not declining surgeryPosted Question, Comment, Reply
C1-C3 plate and fusion outlook,I have my skull-C3 fused and was also 24 when injured. What you’ll notice the most is the limited range of motion looking left, right, and up. I can look down just fine! I can still look the other ways as well, but it’s limited. You’ll get used to it and will learn to turn your whole body to talk to someone or sit at the end of the dinner table and angle your seat. What bothers me the most is muscle pain from the muscles I’m not using anymore. The get so tight and it feels like all I wanna do is move it when I can’t. So when that happens, I have one of those beaded neck pillows I throw in the microwave because heat helps! Sleeping might be different too. I can’t sleep on my stomach anymore because my head doesn’t turn enough so I can breathe. PT helped so much with pain and cramps! 

As for work, I have no idea how much your job will depend on neck motion. I was a flight attendant before my injury, but haven’t made it back to work because when I was finally ready, covid happened. I spent 2.5 years recovering from my accident so I guess I could wait a little longer lol. 

I’m not quite sure how different your experience will be since your skull won’t be fused, but I imagine you’ll have a lot of the same feelings. I’m also the only person I know who has my exact fusion (or anything close to it for that matter), so experiences could definitely vary!,No kidding not to many people have anything above a c3 fused let alone skull included. Glad your not doing to bad asides from some muscle tightness. 

So you haven't had any numbness or shooting pain in different areas? Also were you able to get disability while recovering? Asides from surgery my next biggest fear is being able to keep my family afloat in the recovery time.C1-C3 plate and fusion outlook,I have C1-C7 fused. Injury and surgery happened when I was 28. I’m 33 now and was able to return to work in less than 6 months. I have had to adapt to more of a desk job but am able to still get out in the field to do estimates and outside sales. I work in cleaning and restoration so I’m not really climbing ladders to do windows or boarding up buildings after fires. 

Pain wise, I deal with some nerve pain in my right shoulder daily and my legs twitch sometimes (especially at night when I’m trying to get to sleep).,My right shoulder is worse then my neck right now! If my elbow goes anywhere near close to height of shoulder. It feels like someone hit that preasure point all the way up through my neck. I got a high pain tolerance but it makes even me wanna drop what ever I'm holding and lay down. Aside from my right shoulder and spasms. I get numb feet but that's about it pretty surgery.

1-7 sounds like hell how much mobility or the neck do you still have there telling me I'll be around 50%. How long are you able to sit still without shuffling?C1-C3 plate and fusion outlook,I'm fused from C2-T1. I can do physical labor, but I pay for it over the next few days. An example is yard work. If I spend the day mowing, edging, and trimming, my arms are numb and tingly for about 2 days. The pain is difficult but I can work through it.,Though its painful, I'm glad your able to do what you need to get done. Feeling trapped the couch is my biggest fear I've always been a gogo type of guy. 

How long did it take you to recovery from your surgery?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Book tips,How do you mean?,  I think like, if say ,Christopher Reeve wrote a book about his experience with SCI.Book tips,Actually I was just guessing, but Christopher Reeve has actually written a couple books about his experience with SCI. His first book is called “[Still Me](https://www.amazon.com/s?k=still+me+christopher+reeve&i=stripbooks&crid=GK062B2I9IVB&sprefix=Still+me%2Cstripbooks%2C162&ref=nb_sb_ss_i_4_8)” and his second book is called “[Nothing Is Impossible](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/580285.Nothing_Is_Impossible)”

Also, there’s “[Across The Street From Hell](https://www.amazon.com/Across-Street-Hell-Spinal-Recovery/dp/0615643450)” by Mark Anthony Hall, and one more I found was cleverly titled, “[How I Roll](https://www.amazon.com/How-Roll-After-Spinal-Injury/dp/0982946171)” by J. Bryant Neville.

Hope these are what you’re looking for. At least one of the Christopher Reeve autobiographies were available in audiobook as well.,Exactly what I was looking for. Thanks.Book tips,> I'm interested in first person accounts from people living with SCI.

Do you have any specific questions?,A friend of the family was diagnosed C4 complete 11 months ago.

I am just trying to understand more of the psychological aspects of his injury from his point of view.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Lower back pain during heavy squat,[deleted],Thank you!Lower back pain during heavy squat,It could be tons of things from a sprain to something severe. Contact your GP, rest and ice, and familiarize yourself with the red flags of cauda equina syndrome so you know if emergency intervention is needed!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Update: I no longer have urinary accidents! (Oxybutynin),Glad to hear. I’ve been using oxybutynin for the same reason as you for about 20 years. It’s worked great. I self-catch every 4 or 5 hours. Sometimes longer depending on what I’ve drank. Only time things change are when I drink way too much caffeine or go out for a heavy night of drinking alcohol. But that can be said for any non-sci person.Update: I no longer have urinary accidents! (Oxybutynin),I tried that back in December. It definitely works. The dry mouth and constipation were immediate and so terrible so I stopped taking it after 4 days. I’m glad it works for you and the side effects don’t bother you. I’d honestly rather have an accident than deal with those side effects.,Not trying to change your mind but food for thought... Been taking it for over 20 yrs, had the same side effect issues in the beginning but they faded over a short period of time. I sure I’m preaching to the choir but skin cleanliness is super important for many reasons. Prevent against skin breakdowns, as well as dealing with the smell and not always carrying a change of clothes if you’re working/planning to work. I have a friend who does bladder Botox injections and they work great for him... good luckUpdate: I no longer have urinary accidents! (Oxybutynin),That’s awesome. Try myrbetriq with it! I don’t take oxybutynin anymore because it works so well and doesn’t give me dry mouth. I get Botox injections every 6 months and combine it with myrbetriq. Its a game changer. I average about 500-700cc per cath.,Same!  Although I take some solfenicin as well,,Do you ever have accidents? How expensive is all that?Update: I no longer have urinary accidents! (Oxybutynin),I've begun having positional leaking in last 2-3 months, very stressful. I will try Oxybutynin hopefully it help. Any side effects I need to be aware of?,So far, I’ve only experienced dry mouth!,Try myrbetriq with oxybutynin.Update: I no longer have urinary accidents! (Oxybutynin),Does Oxybutynin get your little guy chubby? I if i remember correctly that use to happen until i stopped taking it.Update: I no longer have urinary accidents! (Oxybutynin),That's awesome! I take Darifenacin 15mg daily and it gets me max 300-400 cc between caths. And the leakage depends on situations. If it is raining.. even without much liquid intake it starts leaking. Accidents are a daily occurence. After your post, I'm inclined to try Oxybutynin. If you don't mind me asking what level injury are you and how long since your injury. I'm T4 and it's been 5 years since my accident.,T6, and it's also been 5 years for me!Update: I no longer have urinary accidents! (Oxybutynin),Good for you!  I certainly hope you get long term success.  Is oxybutynin available OTC or must it be prescribed?  Does it have problematic side effects?Update: I no longer have urinary accidents! (Oxybutynin),I am happy for you! I have been in a chair for 27 years and those medications work for a bit and then stop working as well as they did. I had accidents all the time at night. Ever since I got my medical marijuana card and vape at night before bed,I rarely have an accident during the night. It has changed my life. Once you start medicating before bed consistently it works during the day too. Just another alternative to think about. I still take vesacare on top of using the medical marijuana. Also the Botox works really really well, I loved mine, I just had a bad allergic reaction to it so I can’t do it. But another option!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Bladder leaking while lying down,I've been having a lots of positional leakage problems in past months. Going to see a urologist and discuss some things people here mentioned, primarily getting s botox injection, taking Myrbetriq or oxybutynin.

Leakage is so frustrating, I hate having to change that often during the day, having to wash my bed sheets. I'm always on a look out, checking my pants all the time, just really really anxious. Really hope one of this solutions or combination can help.Bladder leaking while lying down,Leaking or any change in your bladder should warrant a visit to your urologist. The pressure is getting high and that constant high pressure is no good on your bladder health. 

Lying down puts more pressure on your bladder from gravity and if it isn't coming out then it can back up into your kidneys which will result in permanent damage and a trip to the hospital. 

Go see a sci urologist!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Online meetups,My local Spinal Cord Support Group does twice monthly zoom meetings. I haven’t attended since May but they still go on. It’s a great group of people with quite a bit of knowledge of SCIs.

Edit: He is more than welcome. Let me know and I will dm you the info.,Hi yes! Please dm me for more info, thanks!Online meetups,I don't know of any place to suggest but I think making an online presence in areas of the net that he's interested in might be helpful. For instance I follow this YouTube personality and she has started a discord group and they use zoom to interact. I'm thinking of joining for the same reason as your uncle. I hope that helps a little bit.,My dad is brand new to all this (accident at end of May) and is 79. Was good with technology before but having a lot of trouble mastering voice commands. DM  me if you think your uncle might like to talk to him. We live near Boston.,Thank you, he isn’t able to type and he is older so I don’t think he likes to do too much on YouTube is communities like that, tho he would probably enjoy it... so he’s looking for video meetups I think, hopefully his assistant can help set him up in a zoom communityOnline meetups,I work for a spinal cord injury charity and we have online zoom meetings and will be returning to face to face meet ups when we can!Online meetups,Shared adventures.org is wonderful. The founder Foster Anderson has been an eager friend to help the newly disabled as he’s been very active and productive in that situation for over 40 years after a motorcycle injury. He’s easy to talk to if you want to shoot him a text from the website.,**I found links in your comment that were not hyperlinked:**

* [adventures.org](https://adventures.org)

*I did the honors for you.*

***

^[delete](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fu%2FLinkifyBot&subject=delete%20g61b7je&message=Click%20the%20send%20button%20to%20delete%20the%20false%20positive.) ^| ^[information](https://np.reddit.com/u/LinkifyBot/comments/gkkf7p) ^| ^<3Online meetups,Sharedadventures.org, mentioned above, has a monthly activity calendar, lots of online stuff!

https://www.sharedadventures.org/our-adventures/events-activities/,Awesome thanks!Online meetups,Check out care cure community. It's more of a forum but it had a lot of information and users experience that helped me comprehend my injury a lot deeper. Physically and mentally.,Thanks!Online meetups,The spinal cord injuries discord is a good place to get in contact with people going through similar things,Thank you!Online meetups,COVID SUCKS, let's start with that. It has caused many/most support/recreational/social groups to shut down or move to Zoom meetings. 

A silver lining for some who may not have been close to a group or didn't have the opportunity to travel for in person meetings is that many support groups now meet via zoom as others have mentioned. 

If he is looking to talk with folks who are in the same area/state as he is this map provides contact information for support groups around the country and is broken down by state then county.  [https://www.spinalcord.com/spinal-cord-injury-support-groups-map](https://www.spinalcord.com/spinal-cord-injury-support-groups-map)  (The organizers and other information changes from time to time so be sure to call/email the organizer about the specifics)

If he happens to be in South Carolina (or near there) this organization has done a great job responding to COVID and has many different groups and they are super nice so i'm sure they would be interested in hearing form someone who isn't in SC  [https://scspinalcord.org/peer-support/breeze-peer-support-groups](https://scspinalcord.org/peer-support/breeze-peer-support-groups) 

Facebook also has a bunch of groups he can join and I believe they sometimes have subgroups with zoom meetings, just have to go in and search for what you are looking for. For example this group has about 8k members  [https://www.facebook.com/groups/2014869075503756/](https://www.facebook.com/groups/2014869075503756/)  .,Thanks this is great!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Spinal fluid leaking after surgery?,They went in through the front of my neck for my fusion but when I had a baclofen pump installed, they said it was common for spinal fluid to leak enough to stain the sheets for the first few days. Sure enough… Freaked me the fuck out. Their advice was to drink plenty of fluids and limit sitting up if it caused headaches. It did. 

Try not to freak out.,Thanks! He had a drain initially to help the fluids in the hospital, but it’s all healed now and just looks like it’s a puffy bubble!!Spinal fluid leaking after surgery?,I had a slow CSF leak that left me with a largish pseudomeningocele after a spinal surgery.  Because I was able to tolerate the headaches etc with caffeine and positioning they monitored me pretty closely but didn’t do anything about it and eventually the dura healed up and all the CSF reabsorbed. .,Thank you! You are always super helpful with my questions, I really do appreciate it. His is almost the size of a tennis ball. Does that seem out of the ordinary?Spinal fluid leaking after surgery?,I have not but I had a C2-T1 laminectomy with fusion. Best of luck to him. It's not going to be easy going forward.,Thanks! Sounds like a similar level of injury to yours. 


He got 2 weeks in the hospital and a whopping 3.5 weeks in rehab before coming home. He started to get more and more sensation in his feet, legs and back. We are hoping it might be a sign that things are firing back up, but of course you never know.,Reading some of your posts, his issue was also due to stenosis over the years. He had bone spurs growing in his spinal canal and we think one bruised/injured the cord really bad towards the middle of his back. I believe the doctor did the operation in his neck mostly to preserve his upper body function.Spinal fluid leaking after surgery?,7 weeks seems like a long time. Does he have a *massive* headache which would indicate a CSF leak?,No, no huge headache. I am wondering if it’s just slowly leaking and has now caused this big bubble. I saw him today after no seeing him for a few days and it is definitely bigger. I am wondering if a wound care nurse could help.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
exoskeleton,I tried the ReWalk, it is good as a physical therapy device but not practical for every day use in getting around.,I'm a PT and this is exactly my experience.,I want to know all positive and negative aspects of this exosceletonexoskeleton,I used an Indigo (sp?) while in therapy. 100% not practical for "everyday use" but I think it was better for kind of rewiring the brain to remember how to step/walk. I'm ambulatory now with the use of crutches, but I'm incomplete, so it's hard to say what would've happened with or without it.,I want to know all positive and negative aspects of this exosceletonexoskeleton,I’ve tried three types of exoskeleton and only the Rewalk and Indigo were approved for use outside a therapy setting. Regardless, each had positive and negative aspects but getting up and moving helped me a lot in my progress. I’m lucky I was exposed to them and great PT’s to help me on a path to a better life.,PLease, explane me all positive and negative aspects of those exosceletonsPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Wheelchair tires,Schwalbe makes their marathon plus tyre in a wheelchair size with non - marking black tread, also has reflective sidewalls and excellent puncture resistance.,I also use these!Wheelchair tires,Mine just came with my chair but I imagine if you needed a replacement a bike shop could help. I use the solid insert in what I think are shadow rimsWheelchair tires,I get the regular primo everyday tires.  25-540. I get them from Sportaid. They last about 4 months before the tread is gone.Wheelchair tires,I use Spinergy wheels https://www.spinergy.com and have a set of extra wheels that came with my chair that was scripted for me. I prefer my Spinergy  SLX wheels as I have a special side grip on it for my wrists. But they’re expensive and cost about 1,200usd.Wheelchair tires,Marathon Plus and I’m probably on my 8 or 9th set. Buy them online and get the local bike shop to fit them for me as I use Spinergy Lx wheels and it’s a tight fit.

https://www.schwalbe.com/en/tour-reader/marathon-plusWheelchair tires,yup Schwalbe marathon plus for me tooWheelchair tires,I use Schwalbe tires like a lot of others. There’s basically 3 ways I can go about getting them:

1: **National Seating & Mobility**. To go this route, you set up an appointment and they will make an assessment for what you need. From there, they contact your insurance to charge them and then order them. It takes about 6-8 weeks for them to arrive and when they do, they’ll set you up with a second appointment to come in and put them on. When you do it this way, they will also look at your chair and order any other parts that need replacing, i.e; casters, axles, brakes, etc.

2. **Local Bike Shop**. This route is a lot faster but you pay out of pocket. The first time I did it this way I just went in, they figured out what size I needed (It helps if you already know but they’ll double check either way) and then they ordered it. This only took about a week, tops. If you’re real lucky they will have them in stock. The price out of pocket depends on size and tread etc, but I pay between $60 and $80

3: **Ordering Online**. This is my least favorite way since you have no way to make sure you’re getting the right tire. You need to know exactly what size you need and you have to put them in yourself, which is not easy at all, or you can ask your local bike shop to help you. This takes about 6-8 weeks and the out of pocket cost is usually between $60 to $80 but you also pay shipping, which can be expensive and varies greatly depending on where you are and where you’re ordering from. After all that, you could get them and they may not be the right size, width or tread . It’s almost impossible to return them for a replacement, let alone trying to get a refund.

My favorite and recommended way for just getting tires alone is your local bike shop. It’s fast, less expensive, and the people there are always super helpful and friendly and they often have ordered tires for wheelchairs in the past, so they have a bit of experience with it. 

Hope this helps, good luck!Wheelchair tires,I have used Schwalbe, Kenda, Primo

I haven’t done a study to compare cost to durability, but they all seem about the same - you get what you pay for, if durability and service are your interestWheelchair tires,I live in Minnesota found the best winter tires ever! On amazon for like 20$. Don’t let the wheelchair manufactures fool you. If your looking to save money mountain bike tires are the same damn thing! Lol. Only thing I notice with these tread filled masterpiece of tires is the fo leave more black on your hands and sone kinds of floors.  Def worth the  trade to plow thru snow in the winter.Wheelchair tires,[https://www.passionatepeople.invacare.eu.com/wheelchair-wheels/](https://www.passionatepeople.invacare.eu.com/wheelchair-wheels/)

Here is an article I found regarding different wheelchairs/tires! Hope this helps.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Anyone else have muscle spasms when they’re cold?,My spasms are much worse in the cold, I’m pretty sure my doctor said that’s very common so your body isn’t weird!Anyone else have muscle spasms when they’re cold?,I have nerve damage from a botched surgery about 7 years ago and I have muscle spasms on my left side. The damage affects me from the waist down, btw. I've never noticed temperature causing them. It will make them more intense. Mine typically start whenever I start getting really tired. They aren't painful, but they are really bothersome. Sometimes my leg will stretch out and others it will tense up like a Charlie horse. When it gets going cool air does intensify things. Then again anything that touches my leg will. My legs constantly tingle and I get mixed signals about things from my legs. I can't tell the difference in temperature change, sometimes pressure causes pain and pain causes pressure, smooth things feel sticky, and I have hypersensitive reflexes. Tap my knee and I kick like a horse. 

Have you ever had an EMG or been diagnosed with nerve damage? That's what this makes me think of. I'd find neurosurgeon that you trust and go talk with them.Anyone else have muscle spasms when they’re cold?,I do right when I finish showering! I get bad cold chills after drying off and then my spasms tend to kick in a bit!Anyone else have muscle spasms when they’re cold?,I have something very similar to spina bifida, and yes, from my defect down (to my toes) all spasms when I’m cold, stressed, overtired, or in pain.Anyone else have muscle spasms when they’re cold?,Yep, T8 complete and cold sends pain and spasms through the roof.Anyone else have muscle spasms when they’re cold?,Pretty normal your body is reacting in the absence of instruction from your body.  It doesn't have the full connection to the brain to let it know it is over reacting.   Slightly related prior to my injury tickling my feet would give no reaction but now makes my feet jump and twitch like crazyAnyone else have muscle spasms when they’re cold?,No spasms, but cold weather just makes my body feel horrible in general.Anyone else have muscle spasms when they’re cold?,I'm C4, not spasm so much but my muscle tone goes through the roof when cold, and I get so tight I can't hardly move. I hate winter!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I’ve had an SCI for 4+ years but for the first time I feel limited. (Sex related),13 year, C4/5 Walking Incomplete Quad here. 

I'm not an expert by any means but simply drawing from experience. It sounds like she feels insecure because she isn't getting the "normal" feedback or response from pleasing her partner. 

I started dating right out of rehab and I couldn't orgasm for 29 months post injury. 13 years later, it's still a 1 in 10 chance that I'll have one during sex. I've always expressed to and educated my partners that it is a result of the injury but still incredibly pleasurable. Some partners weren't affected at all and took it as a challenge and others simply felt like they failed.  

Ultimately, insecurities play a huge role in sex as much as it does in other aspects of life. 

Just like you can't make someone happy in life, if they aren't choosing to be happy in life themselves, the same goes for someone's happiness in the bedroom. 

In this scenario, there really isn't anything you can do until she's secure in herself and truly understands that you are sexually satisfied. Then and only then will she be able to focus on enjoying herself. 

I hope you can both find a way of exploring her fears and giving her the confidence and reassurance that you're enjoying every aspect of your sex life.,I still haven’t figured any way for me to orgasm yet. It’s been over 4 years. I don’t really get physical pleasure (at least in my penis) from sex so it’s all mental and feels good to please them. I do have some physical pleasure from my nipples after my injury and she enjoys playing with them so she tries to make sure I am feeling good too but I never get that big release like before my injury.I’ve had an SCI for 4+ years but for the first time I feel limited. (Sex related),Sorry you’re struggling. These limitations are a reality we all must face at some point with this injury. The only thing you can do is give it your best and communicate. At the end of the day if you guys aren’t compatible then there’s not much else you can do but move on to someone one more compatible.I’ve had an SCI for 4+ years but for the first time I feel limited. (Sex related),I’m in her shoes. And i sort of know where she’s coming from. From the sounds of it don’t put and pressure on you. It’s a her thing. She needs to be ok with her self and confident with her self. Communication is key you guys just need to be a lot more open and have honest frank conversations. And perhaps a little bit more creative getting to know each other’s body’s. 
It also may just not be right for the both of you and it’ll be a bit pants for a bit but that just means there’s someone else out there for you. It doesn’t sound like you have a hard time meeting people and are fairly outgoing. 
I think for her as a female us growing up and our most sexual experiences, guys couldn’t give a toss about us and our pleasure (thanks porn). The hardest thing for me to adapt was understanding how much pleasure he took from him making me enjoy myself. Very few guys in reality, able bodied or not, actually do that! 
Good luck.I’ve had an SCI for 4+ years but for the first time I feel limited. (Sex related),Appreciate you opening up. I understand where you’re coming from and have felt the same way. At the end of the day you have to remember that you offer her things that other people can’t offer her. Your resilience and strength (although sounds cheesy) is something that she will not be able to find another man who may sexually satisfied. There are gives and takes in relationships and I know it sucks to feel limited, but if you can build awareness about the other parts of her life you are improving it might help you feel better. Shit sucks man, but everything is a choiceI’ve had an SCI for 4+ years but for the first time I feel limited. (Sex related),I talked with my g/f and we both are echoing many of the other comments here.

It is her problem, not yours.  That doesn't mean she is a bad person.  It just means that at this point in her life she isn't ready to be in a relationship where sex isn't "normal". (She may never be ready for that.)

I personally have had comments from women like "If you don't orgasm, then what is the point of sex?"

I knew right then that a relationship with that person wouldn't work.

You mentioned that your lady doesn't like trying new/different things in bed because it is the one time when she doesn't want to think.  That is a HUGE red flag to me.

If she really wanted things to work out with you, she would be excited to try different things because that would help the relationship succeed.

My girlfriend and I are very open in terms of communication in the bedroom and that is **crucial** for any relationship, but especially one in which a person has a spinal cord injury.

I flat out tell her either before or during sex, "I don't know if this will work, but I'd like to try."

...and she says, "We'll alright, let's give it a go.  If it doesn't work we can try something else."

The most important thing is that she is caring and understanding regarding everything in terms of my sexual function/ability and because of that we always feel connected and lovey even if, for example, my dick won't go up.  ...and that DOES happen once in a while, but I have a tongue and I have fingers, so...  ;-p

Interestingly enough, though, when I'm having erection issues, my lady doesn't mind at all because that means she gets to try to "snake charm" him, as she calls it.  (Most of the time she is successful.  Sometimes she isn't, but she understands that it is a me thing, not a her thing.)

The bottom line is that we enjoy EVERYTHING we do regardless of what it is.

It sounds like your s/o is overthinking things (which is exactly what she said she didn't want to do).

That isn't going to change overnight and it may never change.  Then again, it may.

I do believe that you two need a break from your relationship.  If it is meant to be, it is meant to be.  If not, there are so many other fishies out there and most dolphinitely one of them will click with you in ALL aspects of the relationship.,Thanks for the response. The ol tongue and fingers is what I feel I had mastered in the past but she doesn’t like either of those things for some reason so it’s like I had to start over lol. Those were my go to. Thanks for sharing how things have worked for you. I will try to talk to her more about it.I’ve had an SCI for 4+ years but for the first time I feel limited. (Sex related),I went the first 6-8 years after injury without orgasm or ejaculation. Depending on your injury level and what not it’s totally possible.  I found a forum of guys using a tens unit to ejaculate. Have been using that ever sense and its worked wonders for me!  Between using tri-mix for Ed that and an intimate rider. Along with other various things in my adult toy box I’d say I’ve gotten back to having  a pretty normal sex life. 

Just saying don’t give up until you have tried all options. A lot of guys use vibrators such as hitachi wands. They make a medical vibrator just for people with SCI called the a ferticare medical vibrator. 

My  girlfriend I had when I was injured was the same way your talking and it didn’t work out. If only she could see what I’m capable of now!!!!,I have a tens unit but I don’t know how to use it down there. Could you give me some info about that? I have some strong vibrators but haven’t had any success with them.I’ve had an SCI for 4+ years but for the first time I feel limited. (Sex related),I’m a new girlfriend to a T7 complete para. He’s had a second injury that made it so he needs a lot of medication to get erect. And even then it doesn’t get super hard and goes away quickly. Mostly we do other types of sex. 

I had a meltdown the other day after we tried regular sex again because it just seemed weird. But after my bf held me and talked to me I figured out it was because he had been too mechanical and practical. I needed some romance to help me forget that he can’t feel it and all the focus is on me. I needed romantic kissing and touching to bring me into the moment so I could just enjoy the intimacy. He’s really funny, and now he gets extra dripping wet romantic when he wants to turn me on. Try going slow and romantic and getting her so lost in the mood that she forgets about the medical aspect of what you’re doing. For some women like myself, the focus of sex has always been getting the man off. With the focus now completely on my pleasure, it’s taken some romance to make sure I don’t get self conscious and instead actually enjoy being able to direct sex to my pleasure.,Thanks for sharingI’ve had an SCI for 4+ years but for the first time I feel limited. (Sex related),My BF is c5-6 complete, 32 yrs post injury. Like a couple of the other comments, the hardest/weirdest thing was the fact that the focus was on me, especially as previously my aim was to take care of my partner's needs, never my own. I will admit that it does upset me a bit that I can't give back to him in that way. 

I found it easy to change what my definition of sex is, especially when he explained to me what he mentally gets out of it. I was never adventurous in that way, until I met him, but now we both come up with new things to try, and different ways of doing things to try and keep it interesting for both of us. I discovered that I quite like being tied up, giving him control that we both enjoy.
+ If you have or decide to get a ferticare vibrator, make sure she has a go! 

The possible planning/lack of spontaneity isn't something that bothers me much, but I can understand how it might be an issue for others. 

I think without proper, honest communication and openness, things will continue as they are. It's sounds to me that it's her who needs to communicate more. 
You could suggest different toys to try, and different ways to use them and do things. Being creative that way definitely makes things more exciting for us! You could also maybe try to surprise her by planning ahead to be as ready as you can be, if possible; if he knows I'm not in pain, mine will take his blue ones and make sure he caths right before bed. 

But some people can't, or won't, change unfortunately, for different reasons. I really hope things work out for you ❤️I’ve had an SCI for 4+ years but for the first time I feel limited. (Sex related),I have some thoughts on this, but I would like to get my girlfriend's input before I say anything else.

(It is after midnight here, so I will ask her tomorrow morning and then post another reply.)I’ve had an SCI for 4+ years but for the first time I feel limited. (Sex related),Sounds like she isn’t really completely comfortable with the situation set. How do you feel about smoking weed? Weed actually makes sex much more physically enjoyable for me. That could be helpful got you bothPosted Question, Comment, Reply
I host a party every year called happy cripple day to celebrate the day of my injury. Slightly odd I guess, but we love it. We also strongly encourage all attendees to wear these t-shirts. Thought some of you might at the very least be entertained by them. For £0 guess how I injured myself.,this is AMAZING man!!!,Thanks man! There are also a series of bad taste cakes that are made each year. Including a pretty huge chair cake https://imgur.com/wQQsdJe.I host a party every year called happy cripple day to celebrate the day of my injury. Slightly odd I guess, but we love it. We also strongly encourage all attendees to wear these t-shirts. Thought some of you might at the very least be entertained by them. For £0 guess how I injured myself.,Breakdancing under a tree?I host a party every year called happy cripple day to celebrate the day of my injury. Slightly odd I guess, but we love it. We also strongly encourage all attendees to wear these t-shirts. Thought some of you might at the very least be entertained by them. For £0 guess how I injured myself.,Aww I  want a personalized injury shirt now.I host a party every year called happy cripple day to celebrate the day of my injury. Slightly odd I guess, but we love it. We also strongly encourage all attendees to wear these t-shirts. Thought some of you might at the very least be entertained by them. For £0 guess how I injured myself.,This is awesome! I would wear it, I'd just trade a cliff for the tree and change the date.I host a party every year called happy cripple day to celebrate the day of my injury. Slightly odd I guess, but we love it. We also strongly encourage all attendees to wear these t-shirts. Thought some of you might at the very least be entertained by them. For £0 guess how I injured myself.,Very nice,
I call my injury day snapping day.I host a party every year called happy cripple day to celebrate the day of my injury. Slightly odd I guess, but we love it. We also strongly encourage all attendees to wear these t-shirts. Thought some of you might at the very least be entertained by them. For £0 guess how I injured myself.,I also fell out of a tree and broke my back! These images are great! Thank you for sharing!I host a party every year called happy cripple day to celebrate the day of my injury. Slightly odd I guess, but we love it. We also strongly encourage all attendees to wear these t-shirts. Thought some of you might at the very least be entertained by them. For £0 guess how I injured myself.,Falling off a tree?,You win £0Posted Question, Comment, Reply
In an argument with my friend. How happy would you say you are in your day to day life?,It's a constant cycling spiral. According the Dr.'s I don't have bi-polar but it honestly feels like that sometimes. 

I never have a day without pain, I wake up from it and it exhausts me to bed. However imo it's more frustrating not knowing what exactly sets my back off. I'll have one day where I'll feel up for doing some chores and after I get them done I pass out. I'll wake up the next day in severe pain, or sometimes I wake up the next day not doing that much worse.

There's no rhyme or reason to my pain. Or better put if I don't constantly keep up on trying to keep it in shape and cater to it I pay a very dear price. It's like having a 2 yr old crying baby that you need to care for constantly.

So it's a hard question to answer. I have days where I feel like I can't take it anymore only to have a week later a weekend where I actually felt social and like I could be the person I was before my injury.

It's a very hard life to stabilize with I guess is the main point I'm saying so your question imo from my experience is a hard one to answer.

Tbh though I definitely deep down have a love for life. My chronic pain has taught me empathy, compassion, understanding; it's pushed me to do and be things I never thought I could or would be ok being. It's a trip for sure... A total mind bender but you can learn to "ride the waves" after awhile imo.

Sorry that answer's all over the place but that's the best I can do. Have a good one :),Thank you for taking the time to write that out. Chronic pain would be my biggest fear if I suffered some type of traumatic injury. My sister had to amputate part of her leg and now suffer from phantom pain that comes and goes. It really can't imagine what it would be like to live with that and it sucks that she might have to live with it the rest of her life. Makes me sad that I can't do anything about it, but I hope the rest of her time not spend being in pain is good enough to make up for it.In an argument with my friend. How happy would you say you are in your day to day life?,You could research something called the Disability Paradox. This is a relatively common phenomenon that people that do no have disabilities will wrongly think that people with disabilities have a low quality of life, while in most research the majority of people with disabilities report having a good or excellent quality of life. Basically disability has less of an impact on your happiness than people that don't have them expect. This comes from the fact that people's expectations get adjusted. Happiness according to a lot of research, relating to disability and in general, is mostly a product of their social relationships, their sense of fulfilment and personal attitudes. Of course disability can have an impact   
In short, your friend is wrong and you are right. I have a spinal cord injury and know many people who do. We have relationships, friends, jobs, play sports, etc. It is true that a disability can make some of these things harder, but that is not our fault, it is society's. In general people with disabilities have a lot of resilience, since we live in a world that is not adapted to us, so we are able to deal with things being more difficult.   
If feel like your friend has a little lack of imagination, which, in my opinion is probably more of a disability than mine.,This was a beautiful comment, thank you for sharing. I am have an SCI @ t-6; about a year and a half in. I would say I am extremely happy in life and am very fulfilled, and would agree 100% that it’s all about the environment you surround yourself with and the perspective you stay attached too. I was depressed initially after my injury of course, as adjusting was extremely difficult and it was very easy to get stuck living in the past. Since then I have taken a ‘live life one day at a time’ philosophy and I think that has helped me significantly as well. I do plan on reading about this disability paradox it sounds interesting. I wasn’t planning on typing all of this, but just wanted to conclude thanks I appreciate this comment.,>If feel like your friend has a little lack of imagination, which, in my opinion is probably more of a disability than mine.

Gave me a good chuckle, haha. He's not a bad guy, but sometimes he's got some stupid opinions.

From what I know, humans are very good at adapting to new situations and changes. I figured it would be the same with a disability. Probably very shitty at first, but once you get used to it, just another part of life.

Would you say that most of the problems that have resulted in your life after your injury (or if you were born with it) is caused by other people, rather than the disability itself? By that I mean people judging you for your disability, or lack of proper accommodations like ramps etc.In an argument with my friend. How happy would you say you are in your day to day life?,I'd say I'm pretty happy, I'm lucky to be alive and have grown closer to the people i care about since my injury so I see each day as a giftIn an argument with my friend. How happy would you say you are in your day to day life?,Yeah, your friend is being stupid. My spinal cord injury isn’t particularly sever, but as a result of it I now know dozens of people with higher level injuries who are full-time wheelchair users. They do indeed live happy, fulfilling lives - I know several Paralympic athletes, a man who got his pilot’s license after his injury, many people who are happily married (some met their partners after their injuries), a woman who took up painting with a paintbrush in her mouth after her injury and now makes thousands for every painting she sells and can’t keep up with demand, and also many people who are happy with their everyday lives in smaller ways too.

Adjusting to life with a spinal cord injury is hard and I would never want to downplay how difficult that can be, both physically and mentally. But living with a spinal cord injury is just like anything else, and a fulfilling life is certain possible - and I’d even say fairly common.,Yeah, figured he was being stupid. Most of my own hobbiest are done without my legs, so I think that if I ended up in a wheelchair I could still like a content life. I think he's just projecting his own feelings of what he would do with that kind of disability onto everyone else.In an argument with my friend. How happy would you say you are in your day to day life?,I am about the same as far as happiness and fulfillment as I was before my injury. I too am grateful to be alive, broke my neck at 18. Life is still good.,I've been on bed rest for three months and now in hospital. I need three more surgeries which will put me on bedrest for another two months, estimated. Lying here in pain. Yet oddly embracing that pain as warmth and having a lovely day enjoying myself listening to music. But I feel really happy and looking forward to the future… lots to look forward to because I still make a huge effort to work hard, stay in touch with people and keep progressing with life. I can't move or feel from the chest down… it's all about perspective and keeping busy and being constructive and growing.In an argument with my friend. How happy would you say you are in your day to day life?,I’m a T10 complete from an injury in April 2018. I’ve got a pretty good life. A lot of amazing things have happened. I never open a door in public anymore. Apparently the whole world is my staff that hold doors open whenever I come and go. 

I suffered a brain injury at the same time as the spinal cord injury. The tbi is much better now. I’ll take the spinal cord injury over the tbi any day. It’s one thing when your legs won’t listen to you; it’s a whole other thing when your brain isn’t listening.In an argument with my friend. How happy would you say you are in your day to day life?,I’m very happy, thank you for asking, I’ve a great family, good friends and a strong support network. I work full time, I also volunteer for RNLI (pre and post injury, I just don’t go to sea anymore) I play sports and have an active social life. Yes, life is more difficult in a chair but that is not because I’m disabled it because I live in world which is not designed for wheelchair users. I live a very fulfilling life and to be quite honest with you I wouldn’t change anything, even the SCI, well maybe the chronic pain bit but I’ve learnt to disassociate from that so it doesn’t bother me so much. What I’ve been through in the last 12 years, while tough and daunting at times, has made me the person I am today and I’m very grateful for that.,Thank you for answering. I'm hoping I'll be able to convince my friend that he's wrong that a person a SCI can't live a fulfilling life.In an argument with my friend. How happy would you say you are in your day to day life?,I have days where I hate it. I wish it weren't so. I cry for about 10 minutes, then I move on.  It's not every day, mind you. But people without SCI have days like that, too.  Everyone has *something*.

On average, I'd say I'm actually pretty happy. I've certainly had to make adjustments, and given the chance I'd like a cure. But until then, I'm good.,>Everyone has *something*.

Very true. I don't have any kind of physical disability and I still need some time to cry on occasion too. I'm sure there's lots of people out there with some debilitating disabilities who live a happier life than people without them.In an argument with my friend. How happy would you say you are in your day to day life?,There are psychologists/psychiatrists that specialize in “rehab medicine.“ What makes some people resilient to change and how to give that gift to those who are suffering. They would understand and have statistics on the quality of life, in general, after a spinal cord injury or any other major, catastrophic, life-changing injury like an amputation. 

Personally, I feel like I’ve been hanging on by a thread for years. Every year has been worse than the last with the exception of last year which may be the reason why I’m still here. Playing things day to day.,I hope things continue to go well for you.In an argument with my friend. How happy would you say you are in your day to day life?,> I disagree

And you're absolutely right.,Succinct. I like it.In an argument with my friend. How happy would you say you are in your day to day life?,Generally I'm pretty good - just sort of get on with things to more or less the same level as I did previous to my SCI. Not saying there isn't issues, but there are issues with literally everything and if I focused purely on them I'd have a rough time of it regardless of physical ability.In an argument with my friend. How happy would you say you are in your day to day life?,[deleted],Sorry to hear that. I hope keep fighting and that you find something that you really love doing that makes the pain worth it.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,There are two types for me internal and external.  My internal nerve pain feels more dull like a pliers is gripping an internal muscle or bone and trying to twist.  My external nerve pain is a hypersensitivity.  Patches of skin fluctuate between total numbness and hypersensitivity where a light brush against the skin can feel anywhere from stabbing with a thousand really skinny needles or that period of time after dumping boiling water on your skin after the initial shock has worn off.,> My external nerve pain is a hypersensitivity

Dude me too, some of the hypersensitive areas in my toe I can feel tingle all the way up to my glute when touched.  It's crazy.How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,Like being burnt by fire or the worst frost bite imaginable. Just an intense burning feeling sometimes hot sometimes cold.,This absolutely! and wind blowing on my skin is uncomfortable AF.How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,My partner only has nerve pain in his pelvic area. He says it feels like he has a bladder infection (even though he doesn't). It sounds annoying, since he thinks he has one sometimes, yet it comes up as completely negative. There's a burning sensation in his penis sometimes, pins and needles around his butt. It sounds very uncomfortable. 😔How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,Get a Sunburn caused by electric arcing then go lay out in the sun next to one of those big, decorative grass plants that has the long, sword like leaves that bend over and point towards the ground. Let the tips of those swords poke you randomly in the breeze.

Also, the breeze hurts.How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,My specific pain is like multiple or 1 really thick needle is pulsating and stabbing meHow would you describe how nerve pain feels?,Like an electrical  shock that umis drawn out. Or sometimes it feels like someone  is taking a razor and dragging it across mt muscles and tendons.,Identical for me - it feels like razor blades in my intestines.How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,(L1 Incomplete, Ten Months Since Injury, Walking Poorly With a Cane)

Right now it feels like a snake has latched onto my right leg and has its teeth deep into my ankle. Often it feels like a mix between my leg being held in a fire and someone actively trying to rip it off. There is such a wide range of stabbing and burning and pins and needles and aching. 

I also have almost no sensation or function in that area of my leg. Just this intense crippling pain. It often has me crying out and wondering if I'm actively dying. All of my body tenses up. I catch myself not breathing. My teeth clench. My face gets all tense and unnatural looking. If I'm in public I might just be breathing heavy and staring at the floor hoping that it passes. Someone listening closely might hear the occasional whimper and someone watching me will see my body tense and release drastically and often. I feel non-functional. I can usually listen while in pain but often I can't watch something or speak. I've gotten better at talking through it but it's very tough to concentrate on what I'm saying. At home it typically has me laying in bed writhing as the pain shoots through my leg and I try everything I can to distract myself, which is often reddit which requires very little attention span but is distracting enough to pull me away from the pain mentally. At home I'll cry out fairly often, and luckily the neighbors haven't complained yet. 

Almost nothing helps. Sleep can sometimes be a brief reprieve but the pain will wake me up. Pain meds might offer a bit of relief but the pain pushes through. I have high hopes for a spinal cord stimulator trial that should be happening in the next couple months. I've tried various meds, heat, cold, massage, being barefoot, topical creams, tens machines, desensitization therapy, and so many more things. The pain endures, often even more angry that I tried to get rid of it. 

One thing I did find helpful is reading through these comments and the reminder that I'm not alone and my case is not unique. Thank you everyone for sharing your stories. You're all so strong and we can all get through this. Don't give up. I'm confident within the next few years there will be more options on the market to help us. Let's push on in hopes it'll get better. Take care, all.How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,I miss hugs ;(How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,It depends on the day. Sometimes its an annoying almost vibration like tingling and burning. One a bad day it feels very similar to a bad sunburn.How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,That varies quite a lot. It ranges from mild itching, via a dull ache, to severe un-ignorable repeating stabs of pain. The latter is worsened by the fact it has an impending aura. I can feel it coming, and there's nothing I can do about it at that point but tense up. Luckily, and as annoying as the occasional attack is now, it's as nothing compared to the agony caused by what turned out to be a large tumor compressing my spinal cord from the inside.How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,The best way I describe it to people who don’t know what it’s like.  It’s like if you have ever had your foot fall asleep so bad it hurts. 

And mine goes from my ass to my toes lol!,Ditto - except gradienting down from chest. I also get electric stabbing headaches which feel like someone got a knitting needle, electrified it and then jammed it under my skin.How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,Like I've been stabbed with the hottest ice pick you could imagine. Then to make it worse the tip explodes like a firework and that feels just as hot and sharp. Sometimes it only lasts a few seconds and others it pulsates for a few minutes to a few hours. The longest I've had it last was about 24 hours. After my last surgery I had it just above the bend of my right knee on the backside of my leg. After complaining enough a nurse helped me turn and found a small piece of tape stuck to my leg and as soon as she pulled it off it eased up for a few minutes until we found another piece of tape stuck to the same leg a little higher up. That was about half way through and I didn't get any sleep until the second night. It's been almost 3 months and I still have issues with that same spot. Just randomly it'll go off.How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,I get it in my feet and it feels like your being devoured by piranha. Also get pain in my right shin that feels like a green branch being bent and it’s as if I feel all the fibres under tension.How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,Like sitting on a bed of needles for a long while, or like wearing acupuncture sandals (except the sandal is made of wood or some hard metal). Around the pelvic region, imagine a knitting needle pressing against your muscles for 30 seconds to 2 minutes nonstop, heating up the surrounding area, numbing sensation around calf muscles, with that overworked muscular movement it generates when those muscles go tired. And against the thighs, as though a bed of filed nails is being pressed in a massage like movement. Summing up a weird pull effect in the toes. Or a small electric shock, equal to touching 2 9-volt battery on your tongue either in your toes or around pelvic region.How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,It’s like the angriest, white hot ball of hatred. Like a tiny star is being formed inside of you. It’s the purest essence of pain that no medicine or therapy can touch.How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,Feels like that point when your arm is asleep cause you were laying on it weird and it starts tingling like crazy and you get real mad at it to stop tingling but it never stops. Except down your entire body lolHow would you describe how nerve pain feels?,Mines comes as an itch somewhere on my arm thats spreads up or down the arm and gets more itchy, scratching it has no effect -\_-How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,Feels like burning and pulsating down the leg for me. I've got injury to L5s1 up to L2l3 and sometimes it feels like if you wear really tight socks, and take them off but it still feels uncomfortable.How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,Painful pins of staticky fiery ice needlesHow would you describe how nerve pain feels?,Like my right foot is constantly burningHow would you describe how nerve pain feels?,Nerve pain feels like a toothache. Times 1,000. You can’t take anything to get rid of the pain and it doesn’t subside.How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,Mine is like m4dch3mist’s in that the muscle contracts intensely and I also get the hypersensitivity but I’ll also on occasion get a burning sensation. The hyper part is usually when something is wrong with my system like UTI or something. The others can either be singular or come on together. Fun huh?  Hope it helps.How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,Combine rope burn, mixed with hitting your funny bone, and throw in some banging your knee with a dash of being punched in the gut for that extra bit of nerve pain spice. And this is just from wearing a bra or a tank with minimal support.How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,When I was a kid I fell on a electric cattle fence, my nerve pain feels exactly like that... I think my brain uses that incident as a reference.How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,I describe internal nerve pain as similar to pins and needles but far more extreme that for me basically never goes away.

The reason being that everyone will have experienced pins and needles at some point and so it helps them to understand from their own experience what the pain is like.

My external nerve pain is hypersensitivity, across my neck, shoulders and back. So on a really bad day it feels like my shirt collar is slicing my throat open.How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,I get ripping sensations and then numbness. The Dr.s keep saying there's no damage but it really stings after. Especially in my eyes. Using the clutch in my car makes me end up limping for days. They say everyone describes the same thing and there is no damage. Anyone else get ripping in their connective tissue?How would you describe how nerve pain feels?,If you took TV static, electified it, and ran it through your nerves. Or like if you take your foot falling asleep and then run that signal through an amplifier for like a basketball stadium.,That’s a solid description!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Broken C4 - Upcoming ACDF Surgery,Hello, I fractured and subluxed C4 and C5 and had them fused from the front with a plate. This was early March and I went from full paralysis before surgery to wiggling my toe afterwards. Walking took another ~2-6 weeks and I am now mountain biking, wakeboarding, and preparing for ski season, though not at my previous level. Doc says my vertebrae are just as strong as before. You will have a far quicker and easier recovery given the lack of spinal cord damage. My folks said the surgery was pretty quick. Feel free to DM me with any more questions,Just wondering how do your strength levels feel? That's amazing that you are back to doing the activities that you enjoy but do you feel weaker in anyway? Assuming you just have modified your styles to match your body now (if even needed).Broken C4 - Upcoming ACDF Surgery,I fractured C2, 3, and 4 in April of 2016. I couldn’t move anything from the shoulders down. The did a posterior cervical fusion the day of the accident. I’m able to walk with 2 canes, have sensation all over... although that’s not always a good thing. I’m also a registered nurse. I have an extensive background in trauma, critical care, and care management including revenue cycle. I am fortunate to be able to work, and manage RN Care Managers and Social Workers. The hospital I work at is an orthopedic center if excellence. Most people that have ACDF are outpatient and go home the same day. Since you had a trauma that caused it, the surgeon may keep you overnight or 2 nights max. You got this! I hope it alleviates your symptoms.,Your words mean a lot coming from someone who had a worse injury than me and your career. Did you work in this same field before your accident?

I am not sure if this is considered an ignorant question or not so forgive me if so, but do you think over time the walking will come easier to where you will not need both canes?

I hope the days you feel pain get farther and farther between each other.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Quadriplegic talking about bladder management in latest YouTube vid!,lol, watched the first 30 seconds of the video.. was reading my other screen and that "URINE luck" joke caught me off guard and gave me a good laughQuadriplegic talking about bladder management in latest YouTube vid!,Hey just watched the video, I found this incredibly informative and gave me a better perspective of the day to day routine when living with an SCI. Thanks for sharing!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Visiting the Grand Canyon,Great trail for rolling along on the south rim. Plenty of lodging, but avoid the high tourist season (summer) everything stays booked solid. Call ahead to hotels and speak to front desk  and get a name. Don’t ever confirm access or equipment with corporate booking if it is a chain. 
Having your own vehicle allows you to avoid the buses. They have turnouts all along the south rim where you can park and access the long trail. Some spots have better views than others. 
Watch the weather if going in Spring or Fall, you would be surprised the altitude on the rim. We went for Spring Break and it snowed briefly, but it was awesome. Now would be a good time to go, but not sure if and when the park closes for winter. I think the North Rim does close.
I see you are a newbie. Make sure the hotel set-up is adequate for your injury level. If a para, most can be managed. But be mindful of shower chair. Some have no backs and are more designed for old folks. I travel a lot (T-6 para) and often just sit in the bottom of the tub shower. Roll ins can be a pain if no fold down and no other seating available. Sometimes I ask to speak with
Head of maintenance or housekeeping to understand shower chair set up. Beware old hotels with “accessible” rooms. Often door widths are a no-go. Also some old hotels have funky steps in the rooms. Ask about that also. Toilets are ok for me at T-6 assuming I can actually get to it LOL. 
Just like everything we face, it’s a learning curve. First few times are scary but then it becomes old hat. But be aware accessible travel is fluid with no hard norms or rules. Everybody doing just enough to get by with ADA or trying to please all levels of need when we all have different needs. Don’t let the frustrations ruin the trip but don’t be intimidated by the staff either. Most want to do right. I’ve had them take bathroom door off the hinges more times that I can count. I’ve had them go borrow a chair from another hotel. Be polite but firm and insistent. Have fun traveling, I’ve been over half the world in a chair. Don’t stay home!,This was so helpful :) thank you!Visiting the Grand Canyon,Hi, just in case you didn’t know you can a free national park pass!!! It is a disability perk. https://store.usgs.gov/access-pass,Sweet! Thanks :) do you know how long it takes to receive the pass after applying for it?,When I went to Yosemite National Park, I just showed them my disabled placard and the paperwork that came with it, then they handed me a golden pass card.  That was it.,Every year my wife and I would buy the annual park pass. Now I never have to buy another one and it only cost about $1.2M in hospital costs and five months of my life! It’s pricey, but worth it. 

(Haha please note the heavy sarcasm)Visiting the Grand Canyon,The South Rim has at least one long accessible paved trail with breathtaking views. The shuttles between sites are accessible and they bump you to the front of every line and make sure that you're seated first. You'll also be allowed to drive your car to certain loops.Visiting the Grand Canyon,I'm sure mileage varies depending on your mobility, but for me, the Grand Canyon was pretty good accessibility wise. They have a bunch of information on their website, and there's a guide available [here](https://www.nps.gov/grca/planyourvisit/upload/GRCA-Accessibility-Guide-2018.pdf). As a manual wheelchair user, the accessible trails are pretty easy, and there are plenty of accessible viewpoints with good views from a wheelchair.

When you arrive (I was driving) if you make sure to tell the staff that you're a wheelchair user and you require access they should give you an accessible guide. For me, when asking about whether I could get on and off a shuttle bus, if you're not sure, they might be able to give you a pass to drive yourself to the various viewpoints (a lot are shut off to vehicles so you can walk or take the bus).

Re hotels, I'm sure there's plenty of choice (and again, sure it depends on your exact needs), but I stayed at the [Best Western Premier Grand Canyon Squire Inn](https://www.tripadvisor.co.uk/Hotel_Review-g31393-d226761-Reviews-Best_Western_Premier_Grand_Canyon_Squire_Inn-Tusayan_Arizona.html) which from what I remember was fine for my needs.,Did you have to bring your own shower equipment?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Leg bag smell.,What bag are you using now? Which one did you use before?  I really like the bags I use, but they do start to smell quickly sometimes.  Right now they are starting to smell after 2 days already.. but my piss has been smelling pretty bad recently in the first place.

Normally they go for about 5 days.

I'm using Holister (mine are free from insurance, so I don't really care that I use up so many lol)

https://www.scisupply.ca/products/hollister-leg-bag,Hi, I'm pretty new to this community -- I'm an undergrad student and am interested in learning more about SCI. If you don't mind my asking, how bad do your bags usually smell after 2-5 days? Is it noticeable to people around you?

&#x200B;

Also, I'd be interested to know if you've been able to use catheter valves or plugs before?Leg bag smell.,Sorry to hear that your previous leg bags aren't available. Wondering if you're able to feel your bladder and if you've used catheter valves or plugs before?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Broke T12. What does this RAD report mean?,It means you broke your back, but you do not have a spinal cord injury.,> It means you broke your back, but you do not have a spinal cord injury.

Figuratively dodged a bullet there.Broke T12. What does this RAD report mean?,A burst fracture is a traumatic fracture where the vertebra literally looks like it exploded. It’s a type of compression fracture. It sends bone pieces into tissue when it fractures. That is what the retropulsion means. It means the fracture caused bits of fractured pieces to move back into your spinal canal where your spinal cord is, but you only have narrowing to the canal itself, not actual damage to the spinal cord. With compression fractures you lose height in your vertebrae so your doctor was saying you had lost some height in your vertebra because it was compressed and then broken by whatever you hit. 

You got very lucky.,Thank you.  It’s been two weeks and still a lot of pain and my feet feel like balloons for lack of a better way to describe it and pain in my legs. Assuming it’s nerve damage.Broke T12. What does this RAD report mean?,It means you're in the wrong sub.,😂🤣🤣Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Chronic Pain and the Will to Live,You put words to how I feel every day. Thank you.Chronic Pain and the Will to Live,"  I don't see any way out of this. "....that doesn't mean that there isn't a way. I was a long distance walker and a trail hiker. I can now not get around the block without paying for it for a few days. However I have over the last few years have slowly starting to accept my limitations more and plan around them.  There is still pain and no- doubt  it  sucks bad, but it does not trump my life. Get a support group ( for me it was this sub reddit). Please before you do something drastic please think of what I said. Its your life but remember your life effects everyone that loves you as well.,Can you give an example of how you plan around a limitation for an activity?

I'm not going to do anything drastic, life is short after all, and it will all be over soon enough anyway. Love the people that love me too much to do anything like that. However, not wanting to do anything with any of them and constantly being in pain and a bad mood probably isn't  cake walk for them to see either. Would be nice to just disappear and be forgotten.Chronic Pain and the Will to Live,Dude, I feel you.  I've been dealing with my pain for twenty years, and it's so frustrating.  I'd love to work out so much more than I'm able to.  It sucks having to dole out your time so sparingly (["spoon theory"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spoon_theory) the kids call it these days).  It REALLY sucks when I'm dating, and the men are like, "Let's go for coffee, then maybe lunch and after we can go to the park!"  Then I have to explain why I can't do all that.

I've found various things to do in bed.  Right now I'm learning how to make music using a free program called LMMS you can download here: https://sourceforge.net/projects/lmms/  It's really fun.  Another is Zooniverse https://www.zooniverse.org/ , a site where you can participate in crowdsourced research projects.  I've scanned satellite images to help archeologists find barrows and ancient cart paths; identified houses in rural Africa to help refine an AI program that aims to bring electricity to those houses; and transcribed letters from the 19th century.  At Coursera https://www.coursera.org/courses?query=free you can search for things you might be interested in learning more about.

Don't get the wrong impression; I'm not someone who keeps myself busy everyday with these things.  I have many days where my pain gets me down and I have a hard time focusing, I get depressed and cynical and I don't want to do anything.  But I have noticed that when I do have the energy and I do things online where I'm *active*, instead of passively consuming, I feel marginally better.  So I try to mix that in with the movies and shows and such.  Hope that helps.,Thank you so much for this.Chronic Pain and the Will to Live,I feel ya, bro. Have you tried MMJ? I couldnt get through the daily pain and have a "normal" life without it.Chronic Pain and the Will to Live,I’m sorry you’re hurting physically and emotionally. Please don’t apologize for how you feel-your feelings are valid and completely understandable. Social media leads us to believe that everyone is happy all the time, and life is rainbows and unicorns. The really valuable posts are the ones that allow us to see that this isn’t true, that everyone has bad days or weeks. Everyone deals with pain differently, and mourning the things you used to be able to do is normal. So share away—this is a good place to do it. Hugs and comfort to you.Chronic Pain and the Will to Live,I understand all too well how you're feeling. Hopefully, it'll get better for you.Chronic Pain and the Will to Live,Reading this, right this moment, as I type, I realize you have just spoken out my emotions w.r.t pain, not wanting to do nothing but the bundle of pain it comes with, you have spoken my mind out. This morning I had fallen off my wheelchair, and it took a lot of fight to climb back up by myself. And ever since then, the deep pain in my butt bone (lack of awareness of a better word to it) has been bothering me. Do much so that when I am not doing routine it obstructs creativity. I do probably think swelling up of my feet and the pain is probably correlated but can't be for sure. My feet are swollen up crazy and by morning subside a lot. But the cyclic chain hasn't broken.  You should explore that too. 

This is not the first time, but at the same time I have not lost the will to live, for I believe I have to see a lot more in life. And I have kept myself surrounded by amazing friends whom I can call anytime and nephew who looks upto me. And I believe in being around people who inspire and encourage and watch some meditation videos or some self realization videos. This makes me aware about myself.

I think you should too, if you haven't already.,Thank you for sharing,and I'm sorry you are familiar with the struggle. I have people around me trying to inspire and encourage me, but it all comes right back to pain. Seems like there's no 'other side' to push through to, it is what it is now. No doubt I could be better about my thoughts and meditation can help every situation, should probably get back into it.Chronic Pain and the Will to Live,Look into acupuncture. It’s how I got off norco and was able to start functioning again. I’m t3-t4. Also any hamstring stretches you do could help lower back some.,I also get a very deep tissue massage every week for the muscles that are super tight.Chronic Pain and the Will to Live,I don't have much to say other than that you're a truly courageous person and are enduring something that would have already broken me and 99.9% of the people walking this earth. I hope that something changes for you soon.Chronic Pain and the Will to Live,Have you tried swimming? I'm assuming your arms and top half of body is ok. I swim with a floaty under my legs to lift them up.
 It's the only exercise I can really do that makes me puff now. I also think it helps my back too.,First time I swam I felt like Lieutenant Dan from Forrest Gump as he was back stroking into the sunset. Amazing taking all of the pressure off of everything. Unfortunately I don't have access to a place to swim regularly. Working on getting a hottub right now hoping that is a game changer.Chronic Pain and the Will to Live,I relate so much with what you're saying. I also can't sit for very long at all. I also have to lay down constantly and I can't stay asleep for too long before being awoken by pain.

This is just a stranger's advice on the internet but you need to accept that you're not as capable as everyone else and that you need to care for yourself prior to caring for others, otherwise you'll just screw it up both ways.

It's a terribly hard juggling act and I know it's got to be crazy stressful but I've found in my life that I get periods now of peace and relaxation. They are way more rare than b4 my surgery but they do happen.

I'm trying to make those moments happen more often and last but it doesn't seem to work. Life is too demanding for me. I share a lot of your depressive "what am I supposed to do now?" thoughts.

Keep your head up tho plz as things have changed a lot over the years with my pain. It's almost like you can build up a stable system but it won't work within reality's system. Imo I got a lot better after I agreed with myself that I can't fully relate to people who don't have chronic pain. They either get it or they don't and I have to be ok with that.

You ever need someone to talk to DM me. I could really use someone to relate with when it comes to not being able to sit for any real amount of time at all. It screws up all of life imo and in so many ways. It's very hard to navigate, I relate...

PeaceChronic Pain and the Will to Live,Have you tried a tens unit while sitting up? That may be beneficial. Do you mind elaborating more on the pain? Can you sit up on a sofa without pain or is it sitting up anywhere? Is the area that you experience pain a weak area? I used to have a low sitting tolerance due to severe nerve pain. It has improved over time. I also got a much better chair that helped with it. Not all situations are the same so I understand from that aspect. Your injury is still fairly new so different things will change over time. Hopefully your pain will be something that improves.,I have tried a tens unit and it didn't do anything for me. The pain is more related to the angle I'm sitting at rather than how soft it is. Hurts sitting up straight even if I were on a cloud.Chronic Pain and the Will to Live,What is your injury and when were you injured?,Broken femur, shattered pelvis, burst fractured L4 along with multiple fractures in the S/T/C regions. 12/8/19. Seen all sorts of improvements in the past months. Sitting pain hasn't budged.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Do you walk in your dreams?,I do yeah. I figure it's because I know how to walk in my head, it's my body that doesn't behave.Do you walk in your dreams?,If I do walk in my dreams, I always have the sudden realisation that I can’t and then fall over.,Same it’s the weirdest thing! I get slowly weaker throughout my dream as I start to ‘remember’.Do you walk in your dreams?,It's been 15 years (T12)  and I'm still AB in my dreams.  Occasionally I'll have my chair with me, but I can always just hop out of it when I want to.  I was middle aged when I got hurt, though, so I've only been in a chair for 1/4 of my life.  My brain was well used to walking for decades.  Might be different the younger someone has their SCI.,lol same, I regularly get dreams where i've lost my chair and I walk all around the place trying to find it, like my subconcious recognizes that it's important but hasn't quite sorted out whyDo you walk in your dreams?,I'm 31 years post injury and I'm rarely disabled in my dreamsDo you walk in your dreams?,I dream about me walking a lot but I’m always with my chair, usually pushing it in front of me. I’ve never didn’t have my chair when I dreamt I was walkingDo you walk in your dreams?,No, but I'm ambulatory, although it's not pretty (T8 incomplete 40 years).  I have dreams of peeing normally and not being able to run (which I can't) when I need to. Best wishesDo you walk in your dreams?,Every dream since it happened I walk... Sometimes I'm in my chair but when I come across an obstacle or need to be somewhere I just get up and walk away.. Needless to say I'm often disappointed come morning.Do you walk in your dreams?,I am constantly doing the splits in my dreams. Never done a split in my life, but post injury? Allll the splits dreamsDo you walk in your dreams?,I’m 14 years in, C6 complete. I have never had a dream of being in my chair. Yet when I walk in my dreams it’s as if I’m on a flat escalator, my legs are moving and doing the motion, but my body is gliding. Maybe that’s my brains way of keeping it somewhat real.Do you walk in your dreams?,Before I was comfortable with myself/my injury I ALWAYS walked in my dreams.  I haven't walked in my dreams ever since I made peace with the injury.

The bizarre part about that is that I never was able to walk IRL because my injury happened at 6 months old.

I did a video for my channel a while back on this very subject.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lcJ4h3M8Wt8Do you walk in your dreams?,I had an incomplete injury, and definitely did before I recovered.Do you walk in your dreams?,13 years into injury,still and only walk in dreams and its really nice to do all the things you can't in reality during those dreams.. walking up is literally into painful reality..Do you walk in your dreams?,It's been 10 years for me and I rarely have dreams I'm in my wheelchair and halfway through I'll realize I can still move and walk. Sometimes I dream about horseback ridingDo you walk in your dreams?,All the time yes but I'm always aware that my walking is not quite right.Do you walk in your dreams?,My brother had his injury about 10 years ago and he’s C5 complete, wheelchair bound ever since. Every dream he’s in of mine he has more function than in real life. Usually, in my dreams, he can walk in short spurts then we help him when he gets tired. Sometimes he doesn’t get tired and just walks the whole way to wherever. 

Thanks for this post, I’ve often wondered this myself.Do you walk in your dreams?,All the time, but then again sometimes im in my chair too.
Ive been injured 1.5 years.Do you walk in your dreams?,I have a lot of dreams where I'm standing up and levitating around, not walking or pushing a wheelchair. When I was first paralyzed, I had a lot of dreams sitting in my wheelchair at the top of steep, long staircases.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Biofeedback?,While I've heard the term I don't know anything about it. [Are you referring to this](https://www.health.harvard.edu/medical-tests-and-procedures/biofeedback-a-to-z)? If so, the answer seems to be... [it depends](https://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=spinal+cord+injury+and+biofeedback&hl=en&as_sdt=0&as_vis=1&oi=scholart). It looks like there have been studies focused on varying specific issues that affect people with nerve damage/disorders like SCI patients, as well as wheelchair users in general, to varying degrees of success.

It sounds like something that might be worth at least talking to a doctor about and I'd be interested in hearing anyone's personal experience with it.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Trying to support my cousin with a C7 injury,The best thing anyone did for me at such an early stage was turn up (c6/7 June last year)...now COVID-19 may  make that hard but Skype would be a close second. There's not much you can actually do apart from be there to talk and listen.
Later when things are more settled and the long parth to recovery is a bit clearer then it more useful to get your hands dirty so to speak with helping with PT and alike.
But for now just be there even if that means sitting in their room and not talking. 

Everyone's outcome is different, I was told I might be able to walk short distance (m/ft), last week i walked to the shops wandered around abit got some lunch and walked home, all with my walking polls.(all up about 1.6km or 1mil so still short just not as short as it was predicted)

Your cousins out come will be different but it's really hard to predict what it's going to be at this stage in my experience.Trying to support my cousin with a C7 injury,Paaaaatience! You're gonna have to be so patient! One of the things that drove me mad in therapy was, "move this - move that - come on, try" and I'm like, Bitch, I AM TRYING!!! Nothing is worse than telling your toes to move and they just don't do it (or any part). He's gonna have a lot on his mind and the last thing he needs is to feel like he's being judged. Good luck brotha!Trying to support my cousin with a C7 injury,Find out what the resources are in his home community and have that information on hand.  Discharge planning is supposed to do it, I was at a top five rehab, they did nothing - I went on to subacute and then home with literally no information at all.  Do some research on funding sources for things he enjoyed - gaming, sports - bc adaptive equipment is expensive and resources are finite.  Know that his wants and needs are going to be really fluid for the first year or so, and don’t take it personally.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
How long did it take for a body part to wake up after a spinal cord injury?,Well never if its a complete injury. And all incomplete injuries are different. Personally I was a talking head for 3 months  and got various things back over the next year. Getting stronger in year 2 and then plateauing from there. Saying that 20+ years later my right thumb started "wotking" again. As in I can wiggle it some and grip a bit,Wow 20 years later and function returned? That sounds really inspirational,Any idea how many motor nerve roots or myotomes you regained function of?How long did it take for a body part to wake up after a spinal cord injury?,still waiting lolHow long did it take for a body part to wake up after a spinal cord injury?,2 months, I went from no sensation below my waist and then in a period of 2 days had full control back just lack of sensation in certain areas . It happened 2 years ago but still have constant nerve pain.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Question for quads about widows.,This question is less morbid than I thought it was going to be.,I just saw my mistake haha,🤣🤣😂Question for quads about widows.,Went from sad to boring in 3 seconds.Question for quads about widows.,My dad has found it easy to open the sliding glass door by grabbing the handle and moving forward in his chair. Maybe windows that slide side to side rather than opening up and down or cranking.,Will look into that! tyQuestion for quads about widows.,I would think crank windows would be easiest.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
New L1 Complete Family Member,Just a note: The emotional recovery time for SCI can be very long -- sometimes years.  While optimism and positivity are certainly important, be sure to allow him to experience the full range of emotions that can come, including anger, sadness, fear, and grief.  That last one is particularly important, because with so many changes, it can feel like you've lost so much...not only what his life is like now, but also things he may have wanted in his future.  Your entire life path can get rerouted, and it can be shocking.  He may need to experience periods of grief in order to get through this, and sometimes it's hard for families to let this happen.  They can misinterpret it as "giving up", when really, it's simply a natural part of the grieving process.  Families may also find it difficult because they themselves are trying to get through it, and if everyone keeps a smile on their face it's like they don't have to deal with feeling the pain of what happened or the fear and anxiety of the uncertainty of his recovery.

If you and your family insist on pushing a relentlessly optimistic attitude on him, he may start hiding or repressing his darker feelings, and this will only delay his emotional healing.  So, my advice would be to let him feel what he feels, no matter what that is, and support him regardless.,This is really important for us to hear. It is all very fresh and scary for us all. Our instinct is to stay positive and focus on a full recovery but we have no idea what is the right thing to do. Thank you for this.New L1 Complete Family Member,For books: 
I think the social and mental understanding is really important.

Rebecca Taussig-Sitting Pretty
Alice Wong- Disability Visibility

For rehab info, Tetraplegia and and Paraplegia by Ida Bromley. 

Also check out info regarding the medical model of disability vs. the social model.,Have you read Alice Wong's Disability Visibility? I can't wait to get my hands on it!,Thank you!New L1 Complete Family Member,As you are interested in podcasts, science, recovery, and staying positive. I think you might enjoy this podcast which focuses on discussing stem cell therapy with three people who discuss the good, the bad and the ugly.  [https://www.spinalcord.com/sci-life-uncovered/episode-1](https://www.spinalcord.com/sci-life-uncovered/episode-1) 

Just a thought, but along with reaching out to folks on here or other online platforms it might not hurt for you to speak with others  who have experienced this. You might learn more over a cup of coffee or glass of wine with someone in the SCI community than you would in a day of reading online.  Typically those who have been through this are happy to help others by sharing their insight, and eventually  you may be helping someone else down the line.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Dealing with inconsistent bowels 😥,Our brains (and bowels) must be in sink. Bahaha. Mentally, I too can handle most of this new screwy life but bowel problems is not one of them. It puts me in a funk so quick. Watching my diet is okay but when there’s an issue I’m right back to diagnosing what went wrong. I guess I’m luckier than most cause my wife is a champ in these situations. Good luck to you and I hope you find something that brings you back to a positive time before you were injured.,I'm trying to get out of my funk, but it's hard. I can go for weeks, but then something happens that will bring me crashing back down. Hubby wants me to do therapy with someone who specializes in disability and illness, but I never felt comfortable talking to professionals.Dealing with inconsistent bowels 😥,Seems like you have an incomplete injury?What's your usual bowel routine? Do you use any laxatives or suppositories? Do you use dig stim?,Usually it's just when I gotta go. Sometimes it takes forever and I can't squeeze so I  have to use an enemeez. Since I can't feel a drop in my tummy, I have to rely on other faint sensations like a general feeling of fullness that needs to come out. I know routine is fine for some, but I don't want to use a suppository constantly cuz I don't want to become dependent on it.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I want to stop leaking and wearing diapers. (22F, SCI),Make sure you don't have an underlying urinary infection. That can cause leaks. Else swap to pads instead of a diaper, try oxybutin. If that doesn't help ask about botox in the bladder.

What level are you?,T6.I want to stop leaking and wearing diapers. (22F, SCI),Talk to your urologist. 

Oxybutynin can work but you may need to take multiple throughout the day. Oxybutynin always has heavy side effects for me and also has been shown to affect cognitive function long term so I recommend against it. 

The best option is to get Botox in your bladder. It’s a very quick and routine procedure that holds for up to 6 months! It’s covered under insurance too. 

Find a urologist that specializes in neurogenic bladder. Or any urologist really.,I'm on it, I spoke to my urologist about the cognitive effects and she reassured me very clearly that it's not a risk for young people without other factors for dementia. Those studies showed it worsening existing dementia symptoms while using it, not creating a long-term risk.

What about poise pads instead of diapers? Oxybutinine helps but doesn't prevent leaks entirely.  Def talk to a urologist.,WHat heavy side effects do you have?

I take oxybutine  for 4 years now and 3 times a day.

What long term effect do occur.

I'm curious now, my urologist didn't tell me anything about this.I want to stop leaking and wearing diapers. (22F, SCI),Botox works for me,Fellow botox user here, it's awesome. Though I didn't leak, it was done for pressure and UTI reduction.I want to stop leaking and wearing diapers. (22F, SCI),I was introduced to mybetriq during inpatient rehab and it did wonders for me on top of oxybutynin. I was initially only using oxybutynin and was constantly leaking. After being introduced to myrbetriq the leakages stoppedI want to stop leaking and wearing diapers. (22F, SCI),C5 quad here. I take 2x/ day oxybutinine, 1x every 2 days betmiga and 2x/ year botox and this works like a charmI want to stop leaking and wearing diapers. (22F, SCI),i use toviaz and mybetriq. i never had any leaking, but i would be peeing 10x a day without itI want to stop leaking and wearing diapers. (22F, SCI),A similar drug to Oxybutynin   is Trospium & seems to work better for me + less dry mouth. Urologists don't typically prescribe cause it's more expensive.I want to stop leaking and wearing diapers. (22F, SCI),My urethra was worn away from having a foley long term so the Botox shots and pxybutinin did nothing, so I got a bladder sling!! It’s been amazing! Def a bit more of an invasive surgery but it lasts at least 10 years and I o lr leak if I get really full. It’s also helped me retain my volume. 
They basically take some tissue/cartilage from the leg then go inthe rough the vagina and create a “strap”  to support and close the urethra. 
Best decision ever.I want to stop leaking and wearing diapers. (22F, SCI),It solved my bladder infectionsI want to stop leaking and wearing diapers. (22F, SCI),Suprapubic is the bomb! I would never have had ad the confidence to date again without it!   (Now, about that lack of erections.)I want to stop leaking and wearing diapers. (22F, SCI),I heard from another quad that pumpkin seeds help him reduce leaking. Surely it’s not as effective as the hardcore medical options in here but it can’t hurt to snack on some pumpkin seeds from time to time!I want to stop leaking and wearing diapers. (22F, SCI),I take a daily low dose antibiotic and went like 3 years without a UTI. Before that it was like every 4 months.  That’s when I have problems. I’m a t5 complete but can tell when I have to cath with like 2 minutes before I leak... but I’m a guy... You ladies always have it rougher it seems no matter what it is!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Uncomfortable incident while flying (pee related),Can always try an adult diaper for longer flights. 

I got food poisoning and a really bad case of the runs on a 6 hour flight (all started during boarding). With 1 glove and no lube. I spent almost four hours in the toilet. I can comfortably say that after that experience, nothing much can phase me. Take it in stride. You flew cross country during a pandemic for a job interview. That's major props.,This is the way.  Even with Botox and going right before...it isn't worth the stress.Uncomfortable incident while flying (pee related),Lol it's better than the other type of waste! I had a little accident one time while flying and felt really bad for the guy sitting next to me who had to catch that whiff every time I shifted my weight. 

I might look into absorbent pads for incontinence, I use them every day and they make a huge difference. Also limiting your liquid intake before hand to dehydrate yourself might help but it's a little bit of a dangerous game to play.Uncomfortable incident while flying (pee related),If a flight is 2 hours or more, I try to make certain that I have a seat as close to the restroom as possible so that I can forego the aisle chair completely.

Here's what it goes like, typically - https://youtu.be/bbfWIZm-P1c

I have seen wheelchair accessible bathrooms on planes, but they are super rare in my experience.

There really isn't an easy way to do the bathroom thing on a plane, unfortunately.

(I hadn't thought at all about the attendants helping with the aisle chair in such close proximity during the pandemic, but that is a great point.  Scary times.  =\),That looks like a brave way to get to the bathroom, but I’m not sure I would want to be on the floor rn and I don’t think I have the ab/ chest strength to do that. Still a viable option in an emergency though. I wish there was a good way to use plane bathrooms. Especially on long flights!Uncomfortable incident while flying (pee related),I’m a guy but in that situation I’ll either try and evacuate my bowels as much as possible the night before, and if I’m still feeling unsure I’ll take an immodium before the flight. For pee, I use a a condom catheter connected to a bag strapped to my leg. You can find that That’s what I hear truckers do too.,As a girl unfortunately I don’t really have that option for cathing. But it’s definitely a useful tool for those who can use it!Uncomfortable incident while flying (pee related),I agree! As a C2 flying is horrible for people on wheelchair, particularly quadriplegics and paraplegics. You can also try different diapers, because I have found that significantly impacts the comfort you have during the flight.

Also, I always use a suppository at least 12 hours before the flight to minimize an even worse situation. It helps a lot.Uncomfortable incident while flying (pee related),Do you normally self cath? For a flight that long I'll stick in an indwelling cath with a leg bag. Not ideal but better than nothing.,Yeah I do intermittent cathing and went to the bathroom right before the flight. I haven’t used an indwelling cath out of the hospital.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
T9-T12Complete finding advice on shower and toileting,Hi there! I’m 29yo T8/T9 complete SCI. I’m totally new to this as I’ve just been home for ~4months since hospital discharge. 

For number 1, I was previously doing intermittent  cath in rehab hospital. But I found it way too troublesome to keep transferring plus I kept leaking so I switched to indwelling cath. So much easier to just empty my urine bag.

For number 2, I’ll go every other day and before my shower. I can only go with the help of laxatives so I’ll make sure the timing is right. Lax takes 9-12h to work for me and I only shower at night. So usually I’ll take lax at 10am when I first wake up > transfer from my wheelchair to commode at around 830pm > head to bathroom > transfer from commode to toilet bowl > start digital stimulation > clean up > transfer back from toilet bowl to commode > shower. This whole process takes ~45m now as compared to 1.5-2h during my first month at home.

I’m also wearing diapers to prevent accidents. There were a few instances where my number 2 came a few hours earlier than expected / came a second time after shower / came on the days where I did not take my lax. Really to be safe than sorry, I can’t imagine having to clean the mess up on my bed or on my wheelchair cushion! My diaper is usually quite clean so to be more economical, I change it every other day too. 

Anyways I just wanna say, it’ll take time to find what works best for you. You’ll just have to adapt and adjust from your hospital routine to your home environment. I hope my comment will help you in some way! All the best!,Your experience helps a lot!!! Thank you so much!!!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Any video game or entertainment app suggestions for a quadriplegic?,Headspace is an amazing app for mental health. I'm c6c7 and have some control on my left hand, so I usually play games with interesting story line and easy game play, spent over 400 hours in assassin's creed odyssey, currently playing starwars jedi fallen order. In the beginning I could only play racing arcade games like need for speed. I think Xbox has a special large controller for quads with very large buttons, people with no fingers are also able to customize and use it.,https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/p/xbox-adaptive-controller/8NSDBHZ1N3D8/F2H9?source=googleshopping&ef_id=Cj0KCQjwwOz6BRCgARIsAKEG4FWoxAZTTM83jJ8ptWyxdVuIgRrqDXfr9j0W0fJB2gApyFIQl-UKXIkaAm9NEALw_wcB:G:s&s_kwcid=AL!4249!3!456248030395!!!g!813353801640!&ef_id=Cj0KCQjwwOz6BRCgARIsAKEG4FWoxAZTTM83jJ8ptWyxdVuIgRrqDXfr9j0W0fJB2gApyFIQl-UKXIkaAm9NEALw_wcB:G:s&OCID=AID2100160_SEM_Cj0KCQjwwOz6BRCgARIsAKEG4FWoxAZTTM83jJ8ptWyxdVuIgRrqDXfr9j0W0fJB2gApyFIQl-UKXIkaAm9NEALw_wcB:G:sAny video game or entertainment app suggestions for a quadriplegic?,Digital card games such as Hearthstone, Gwent, Legends of Runterra. Civ 6 on iPad possibly. Plenty of turn based rpgs on app stores.,I'll try some of those out.  I'm worried they'll be intimidating if the rules are overly complex.  I used to play Magic the Gathering and I think that wouldn't appeal to my dad, but I'll have to look into these.  Thanks!Any video game or entertainment app suggestions for a quadriplegic?,[https://www.quadstick.com/](https://www.quadstick.com/) 

&#x200B;

just needs the will to learn this device, it can function as a M&K , xbox controller or nintendo switch if configured correctly,Second thisAny video game or entertainment app suggestions for a quadriplegic?,I'm also a quad with no hand control, and no tricep function. I use a trackball mouse, the [kensington expert mouse](https://www.google.com/search?q=kensington+expert+mouse&rlz=1C1CHBF_en-GBGB842GB842&oq=kensing&aqs=chrome.1.69i57j69i59j35i39j0l2j46j69i60j69i61.5687j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8) and find that I can use it as well as I could use a mouse before. I've been playing a lot of Civ 6 and Crusader Kings (pausable RTS) recently, perhaps he would enjoy these. I also have a joystick with programmable buttons  that I use in place of the wasd keys and other keyboard buttons for FPS style games.

&#x200B;

He should be able to get by doing a lot of stuff without voice control, I type with my knuckles on my laptop keyboard without issue and use my phone the same way. It takes practice, and can be frustrating sometimes but you'd be surprised how much you can achieve without hand function if you get creative and push yourself. It's easy to think that things are impossible when your function is so limited, but I would encourage him to spend some time practising and finding new ways to do things that work for him, I'm almost certain that with his level of function he will be able to use a tablet and laptop on his own even if he thinks he can't right now.

&#x200B;

This is all way easier from a sitting position though, there you can essentially use gravity as your tricep by holding the weight of your arms with your bicep.

&#x200B;

I wish you both the best of luck, and I'd love to hear updates on how he gets on :)Any video game or entertainment app suggestions for a quadriplegic?,Card games -- you can play all sorts of card games, bridge, hearts, poker, etc. Plenty of ways to play on the Internet, too. Cards can be quite social, too, with added voice chat.,Thank you so much. The suggestions seemed so obvious when i read them, but they had actually never occurred to me! Thanks!Any video game or entertainment app suggestions for a quadriplegic?,Many board games have online versions. For example, Catan, Dominion, Tabletop Simulator, etc. For turn based video games, I like Divinity: Original Sin 2, XCOM, Civilization, and Cities Skyline. 

Like what SteamyBiscuit recommended, if you can afford it, I really like my QuadStick. I'm C4/C5 complete and I can play almost any video game using it, including PvP games.Any video game or entertainment app suggestions for a quadriplegic?,I'm a C1 quadriplegic incomplete. I use a GlassOuse assistive device to move the mouse and click using only my head. I use it for pretty much everything on the PC including gaming. It's a great device. Here's a review blog I wrote about it: [https://quadlifeblog.com/2017/07/16/assistive-technology-review-glassouse/](https://quadlifeblog.com/2017/07/16/assistive-technology-review-glassouse/)

also this charity For disabled gamers might be able to help you. [https://ablegamers.org/](https://ablegamers.org/),I'm looking to buy my quadriplegic father a tablet and got excited at your GlassOuse review. I was going to get him an ipad, but now that this device seems so much better than just my dad holding a stylus in his mouth, I'm starting to rethink that. Do you have a tablet? And if so, what kind do you use? (My father does no gaming. This is purely to get him using a computer, email, google, skype, etc. without assistance.)Any video game or entertainment app suggestions for a quadriplegic?,I personally have enjoyed Into the Breach and Fury Turn. I think turn based gaming is a good idea. Also, if voice is not a problem, I regularly use Dragon NaturallySpeaking for my work and it is a great piece of software to get productive quickly.,I 2nd Dragon naturally speaking. I am a C1 quadriplegic incomplete and I can't use my computer without dragon to type.Any video game or entertainment app suggestions for a quadriplegic?,He could probably use a u cuff with a stylus to interact with touchscreens. Audiobooks and podcasts are also options for entertainment and mental stimulation.,C2 C5/6 incomplete I use a cuff with a stylus for touch screens and track pads, and typing. It's the best thing and once you get good with it access really opens up.Any video game or entertainment app suggestions for a quadriplegic?,Podcasts saved my life, definitely introduce him to them. A laptop or tablet with YouTube is all you need.Any video game or entertainment app suggestions for a quadriplegic?,Risk is a great turn based game, although I don't know what the best platform to play on for him.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Board games to help with dexterity and grip development?,Santorini - this game feels like checkers and connect four had a baby with zeus. Lots of fun variations as you move your pieces around the board and knock your opponents down.

Splendor - use tokens to buy favor with masters and nobles. (yes, this game has cards, but you don't have to hold them in your hands)

Quirkle - scrabble with sets of shapes. The blocks are large and easy to handle.

Carcassonne - this game feels similar to Settlers of Catan, but instead of playing your pieces on an existing landscape to gather resources, you're building the landscape. Block off your opponents and build roads and cities to conquer the most land.Board games to help with dexterity and grip development?,Rummikub! My husband was introduced to that game when he was in rehab for sci. It’s a tile game that very easy to learn and also great for the mind.Board games to help with dexterity and grip development?,This is not a board game but hear me out!  Kinetic sand!  It is like a small sandbox for the hands and the sand can be molded/sculpted, you can also hide things in it.  I regained a lot of dexterity using it. It’s very portable, easily stored in a ziplock and pretty inexpensive. 

I second rummikub and qwirkle.  We also played dominos and something called blokus which I don’t even know how to explain, desktop bowling (yeah, really) and made elaborate contraptions out of pop beads

Also, talk to the therapeutic recreation people - they might have birdhouses to assemble or paint or mini-basketball or something he might really enjoy.  When OT and TRec get together it is really something.Board games to help with dexterity and grip development?,If he can’t hold cards but you wanna play card games, cut a pool noodle into a ~6 inch section. Then cut a slit lengthwise. You can then insert the cards upright into the slit and hold the pool noodle to see your hand. Much easier to hold with a weak grip. They also make adaptive card holders, but pool noodles are more fun and less moneyBoard games to help with dexterity and grip development?,Maybe puzzles? Not the 1,000 piece ones with the tiny pieces but something with larger/easier to grab piecesBoard games to help with dexterity and grip development?,crokinole!Board games to help with dexterity and grip development?,Trouble, mancala, bananagrams, scrabble, risk, and battleship could all be good depending on how much control he has over his pinch.Board games to help with dexterity and grip development?,You could try chess with chunkier pieces. Maybe kerplunk? 
If he like jigsaws, you can try putting something slightly sticky like blue tack on the end of a pencil to move the pieces. 
Not a game, but you could also try painting! You can get brushes with loads of different sized handles.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Guys like these makes my blood boil.,As a power chair user, I would not have even slowed down. 

*“Hot coffee comin’ through!“*

I can’t afford to get into hand-to-hand combat so I will do anything to escape the situation. My worst fear is being punched in the gut that I can’t tense up to absorb the blows.Guys like these makes my blood boil.,It perplexes me how some people can be this entitled. So enraging.Guys like these makes my blood boil.,Typical. Probably got worked up with a justice boner and when he's proven to be in the wrong he can't admit it and doubles down.Guys like these makes my blood boil.,I saw this on the linked subreddit and that guy (the bully) is getting ppl really upset. Rightfully so. I think he got his punishment by getting publicly shamed.Guys like these makes my blood boil.,Tool!!!Guys like these makes my blood boil.,What kind of douchebag does something like that. Hope he endos his bike and gets a SCI,hmm - I don’t wish an SCI on anyone

bad juju,That’s exactly how i got mine 😓Guys like these makes my blood boil.,Hehehe I would love to have been in that video...  the POV would be out right beat down of this ass hat right in front of his girl,. Then I would drive her home...Guys like these makes my blood boil.,Hm, unlawfully restricting another persons freedom of movement in combination with making unlawful demands.

Where I live, that would be borderline criminal behavior.Guys like these makes my blood boil.,Please x-post this to r/publicfreakouts and r/iamatotalpieceofshit. Good on you for keeping your cool. I would’ve lost it.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Neuropathic pain. Can’t sleep,I’m sorry you’re suffering from this kind of pain. I understand how unbearable it can be. Mine is constant, with varying levels of intensity. I hope you get some relief soon.Neuropathic pain. Can’t sleep,Have you tried cannabis? It really has helped with my nerve pain.Neuropathic pain. Can’t sleep,Ask for a referral to a pain management doctor or specialist in palliative care. You would be surprised what they come up with when you push this.,Ann, right on!!  A pain specialist can really help.  The treatment plans and methods will vary from one specialist to another.  You will find it helpful to make some phone calls. You may need to see a few doctors to find a good fit.Neuropathic pain. Can’t sleep,Nerve pain is a lot to deal with. I hope you’re able to sleep later today. 

Recently my doctor put me on pragabilin for my nerve pain. It’s supposedly better for me than gabapentin, which is another option. 

Be strong!Neuropathic pain. Can’t sleep,I have just accepted to live with it. Have had bouts of pain through the night or stretched for 2 days, over the last 11 yrs and pressure relieving tactics like push ups on wheelchair, making sure I do my CIC / ICC immediately if the pain comes and drinking enough water. Sometimes I think it is cuz of the dip in temperature, and I try to keep my body warm... I have observed, increased pain also follow increased leaks during the night, but no UTI. I have option to take pain killers, but I don't want to do that. So, I just opt for pressure relief options (aka push-ups on wheelchair for 30 seconds or more) or massage around the area where my brain tells the pain is.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
T7 complete SCI self cath in bed?,Trunk control or at least psuedo-control will take time to develop and strengthen. However, this should be possible. I strongly recommend if you have already not done so to get a hospital bed that is electrically controlled. That way your sister can control her inclination and attempt cath at her comfort.

I know two months seems like a long time, but SCIs take a very long time. At T7 this is definitely something that is doable. Practice and may be you can consider closed cath kits (they have all of the equipment prepackaged) to simplify the process. I personally use Cure Cath after trying a few vendors and they are in my opinion the best. 

She would need to practice turning so that this becomes easier during the night.

I hope this is helpful. Not a medical professional, so not medical advice. Just personal experience. Also, everyone is a little different so this may work out differently than you expect, but I feel it will be something that will happen in the next few monthsT7 complete SCI self cath in bed?,One month at the rehab seems short. I'm not sure what country you are in but one month wasn't enough to learn my new body and even enough to have some sort of confidence after my sci. Your sister will have to learn how to take care of herself and be independent as much as possible for a better quality of life. 

There are also different catheters that can be explored. [See if you can find the country you're in and get a sample or a local dealer. ](https://www.coloplast.ca/speedicath-compact-set-en-ca.aspx).,>One month at the rehab seems short

Agreed, it seems insanely short tbh.

Also OP, look into a bed that can recline the top part of the bed since you said that she barely has any trunk control, can be a bit costly though :/,I spent 2 weeks in the ICU and 3 weeks in rehab lol. Medicare told me to gtfoT7 complete SCI self cath in bed?,It isn’t easy. She should expect it to take a while to figure out. Frustration will be likely. But it should be doable.

Maybe break the task down into steps? This week work on positioning herself, next week work on being able to see herself. Little victories will be key.T7 complete SCI self cath in bed?,Get a smaller mirror. The mirror was a game changer for me.T7 complete SCI self cath in bed?,Totally do-able. About one month out is when many people start self-cathing because they are a little more stable. I really like the speedicath compact set with a bag. I definitely use a mirror and prop myself up on two pillows. I don't use gloves or iodine. I use clean technique, rather than sterile technique and that is much more manageable. Using a foam wedge or an adjustable bed might be easier than pillows at this stage. I hope your sister is going to outpatient therapy at a major rehab hospital. The occupational therapist and a nurse can help with this. Getting as much independence back as possible is important. Your sister should be able to live independently and drive and work, but might need a little tough love and the correct home and work adaptations. I know I did!T7 complete SCI self cath in bed?,You might want to consider getting a hospital bed that can go up/down until she gets more trunk control. 

There’s a bunch of different types of catheters. She should schedule an appointment with a urologist and they should provide her with a variety to try out. 

Self cathing in bed is absolutely vital for SCI. Once you can do it, you can get much more sleep (although it probably won’t ever feel like enough). One thing I would recommend is looking for a water-proof pad for her to sleep on. This will prevent the need for changing the sheets anytime urine leaks. Saves a boat load of time and washes. 

It’s a long journey figuring out SCI at the start. You’re doing the right thing by reaching out and doing research, but ultimately a lot of this will be trial and error until she figures out which suggestions work for her.T7 complete SCI self cath in bed?,Jeeze, out after one month is FAST. 

Couple things: 

1. She will absolutely be able to cath herself in bed; and
2. She will absolutely be able to cath on the toilet/from her chair eventually.

However, both these things take practice. Don't bother with a hospital bed. They're huge and expensive and in a couple of months she won't need one. 

Start with male catheters (longer and give you more control) and urinal bottle (curved up at the end to prevent spillage) and  mirror. She should be able to easily cath herself with those tools (after propping herself up on some pillows).   


When she gets stronger and her pain levels allow, she can start practicing cathing from her chair sitting up with male catheters, and/or eventually on the toilet with female catheters. This process is frustrating AF and will take a long time, but she'll get there.   


Feel free to DM me. I'm T7-8 complete, 15 years post. I've got two little kids, am a full time lawyer and life is awesome. My injury was a nightmare and it took me 8 months to get out of hospital/rehab......I've also got some excellent FB community recommendations for her but I won't share them publicly here (I'm protective of them, and don't want weirdos who might be lurking in the sub to know where they are).T7 complete SCI self cath in bed?,Until she can manage to get it done from her chair/on or at the toilet this can definitely work.  Without some sitting uprightness, though, its tough not to leave residuals cathing when lying down.  Doing that for too long is a recipe for UTI, often recurring.  Be careful about that and be sure to get some way of emptying the bladder entirely!  Lying down makes this very hard.T7 complete SCI self cath in bed?,I know it comes with risk, but using a foley at night time is a lot easier and you can actually get a full nights sleep. And I personally have to urinate a lot more frequently when laying down vs sitting up.T7 complete SCI self cath in bed?,Male | T12 complete July 2019

It's very possible for her to be able to do it herself. The both of you will just need to be patient with the learning process.

As far as supplies go:
- look into hydrophilic catheters. This'll help eliminate some steps you'll need to do each time and make things faster for both of you
- If you don't have some already, look into 2,000ml urinary bags for her. This'll help reduce the number of times you'll need to drain the bags for her. I use one from Medline and I only need to drain it in the morning.
- For the first few tires, look into getting a incontinence pad from Amazon that you can have on the bed so if she makes a mistake, it'll be easier to clean up spills or messes. (Tip I got from the nurse: if the one meant for humans are too expensive for you, the doggy training pads work too) (I just bought a reusable one and just wash it)

For positioning since my bed is along the wall, I put some pillows along the wall for cushioning and get into a somewhat leaned back position (nurse said it should be anywhere between 30 to 60 degree angle). There are beds that will recline for you but that's expensive (avg.  800$). Once I get a feeling that I'm ok, I go ahead and start the process.

Sadly I am saying this in a male perspective but I hope that'll give you some direction to go with. If you have Facebook, there are many Spinal cord injury groups that can help tooT7 complete SCI self cath in bed?,It's absolutely possible and she need not worry. But rehab for at least 3 months is important and necessary for her to learn everything. Even after 11 yrs I think I should visit rehab once more just to hone my skills and learn something new, better. But I will advise against any reclining bed, special mattress of any form to avoid pressure sores. It is important that she is aware of the seriousness of pressures sores and ensures she doesn't get any. And special mattress and reclining beds are more likely to give that. And so is prolonged wetness in private areas at night.

I although, do not do self cath in bed. The last call is always in the restroom and then I hit the bed. Depending on the weather I assess if I will need diapers or not. And on days when my calculations go wrong, I learn. Now on the wrong side of 30,so I have to change this habit. Trying to figure alternate and avoid having leaks since it is time to take better care of myself.

But as fat as your sis goes, you must urge to go for a longer rehab stint. Life will drastically improve and the trunk balance short cuts also she will learn. There is no way around it. Until then follow some of those female wheelchair users in instagram so she sees that she can lead a better life and also probably do some of the easier exercises at the comfort of home.T7 complete SCI self cath in bed?,T2-t3 ,I have a power bed and sit up. I also have a rolling hospital table. I set everything up on . I placed a light on the under side of the table so as not to wake my partner.T7 complete SCI self cath in bed?,T8/9 SCI this Jan and was discharged around Apr. I used to do intermittent cath in rehab hospital but when I got home it was just too troublesome and I kept leaking so I switched to indwelling cath. Best decision ever, it’s so convenient and clean!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Let spasms,That's called 'spasticity' and it is super common with SCI.  Oral Baclofen is the most common medication to address it.  Some have it so bad they have a Baclofen pump installed to constantly meter out doses.,I'm in 20mg baclofen 3x a day and tizanidine added to it. I really don't want a pump though.Let spasms,Knockout, You are doing the right thing to do all you can to stretch and stay limber.  The human body was built to move, not to sit.  Unfortunately, SCI puts most of us in a very sedentary situation.

Often times muscle relaxers are prescribed to help prevent spasms, the tight muscles, and pain.  But like all drugs, side effects come along with the benefits.  Tell your doctor about your symptoms just like you wrote in your post.  Your doc may give you a muscle relaxer to try.  See if they help, especially at night so you can get better sleep.Let spasms,Welcome to the fun world of leg spasms. I'm pretty sure mine start the moment I launch Apex Legends and jump everytime I need to aim.,haha yeah it’s the worst when trying to game and your legs cause your hand to move your mouse or controller accidentally :(Let spasms,I have a standing frame and I use it daily but what has solved leg spasms for me (I am completely off all meds - no baclofen, tizanidine or benzodiazepines) has been an estim bike (I have a myolyn bike and the support is amazing) and a vibration plate.  

I used to have a really amazing vibration plate that fit under my standing frame but it broke (was used when I got it) and I can’t find another one that’s thin enough.  I stole the idea from someone on carecure.Let spasms,Do you use your standing frame?  Because my equipment rep told me that the usage for SCI is under 50%. 

I have terrible leg spasms, and even my abs will get tight.  I use my standing frame every day for for 45 - 90 min. It does wonders for helping control spasms.  I also stretch when I’m not being lazy... I actually get on the floor and stretch like they made ya in gym class lol. I know that’s not an option for all SCI tho. 

You could also talk to your rehab doc about Botox injections. You have to go get them every 3 months tho but they def seem to help me. 

I still have to take baclifen but doing all this helps you keep the dosage down. Because IDK about everyone else but the shit makes me tired.,No, I used one in rehab but there is no where near me that has one and they are to expensive to buy my own.Let spasms,I have this same issue and I have to take baclofen 3 times daily for it. I also just had a knee surgery because I tore my ACL and my leg spasms are causing me a LOT of problems as a result.Let spasms,I'm t4-t6 incomplete walker. I get leg spasms all the time. I stopped baclofen a few months ago because I read it could make my progress harder to achieve so I just deal with the spasms. I was only on it for a few months anyway. I've noticed that my level of exhaustion affects the severity of my spasms. If I get little to no sleep the night before, my spasms are crazy jerky and violent, and I could injure someone if they're near my legs at that time. I'll also be barely able to shuffle the next day because my legs will want to constantly give out.Let spasms,Like they said it’s spasticity. It’s your body trying to protect your bones better because most paraplegics and quadriplegics have osteopenia or osteoporosis from the hip on down. Stretching and baclofen are key to helping discomfort. My spasms will twist me up so bad I need to have my PT manipulate my hip. It’s probably better to see a chiropractor. I’m a T12/L1 incomplete for about 3.5 years and recently my pain has been through the roof. I need to stretch a lot just to function. It’s basically a full time job. Meds and stretch. Meds and stretch.Let spasms,I want to add that for me personally I put an ice pack on my tailbone and it usually stops the spasms. That might just be me, though. And if you have no sensation, you need to be careful because ice burns are not fun. I’ve gotten one because I can’t feel the skin that well around my tailbone.Let spasms,Without a doubt marijuana has been the most effective at stopping my spasms.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Short term caregiver?,Yeah sounds a little crazy but a few weeks before I go somewhere I’ll post on Craigslist looking for experienced caregivers in the area. Almost always have been able to find an experienced nurse. Never had an issue having them come through to a hotel or air bnbShort term caregiver?,I know at my nursing agency in the past the nurses accompanied a trach patient overnight. I dont think its unheard of   Maybe call the agency if you have one......Posted Question, Comment, Reply
20 innovation for SCI in 2020,>Cervical disk replacement

For the love of God, just get this metal out  of my neckPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Anyone use a stand up chair?,Use an electric chair with this. 

Pros: Easy to use, helps to give my buttocks some pressure relief and potentially some other benefits with regards to bone strength and inner organs (a bit unclear). 

Cons: The chair is slightly higher as a result. With the chair being quite high already and a thick air pillow I usually sit by the table without my thighs underneat. 

I don't think I would have done it if I had to transfer since I need assistance to do it. As it is now I do it everyday. 
Cons:Anyone use a stand up chair?,I posted a similar query few weeks ago. Maybe replies there might help you decide.
[Post](https://www.reddit.com/r/wheelchairs/comments/i5ydof/experience_using_electric_wheelchair_with_standup/)Anyone use a stand up chair?,Yes, I'm in a Permobile F5 and love it. I'm a C5 quadriplegic with very little use of my hands so I need help putting in the knee and chest brace to be able to stand up. Once everything is in, I can stand up and sit down whenever I want.

A chair that can stand is generally a bit bigger and heavier than most other power chairs which should be taken into consideration if you have future plans to buy a van and drive. Fortunately, my van is big enough and I've had little to no problems getting through doorways.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Peptide recommendation?,Yeah, we all know what it is but we refuse to take it or tell anyone about it so now you’re just going to have to suffer with us buddy,Rip. Thoughts and prayers.,We are all in this together
suffer togetherPeptide recommendation?,How long ago was your injury? 
If you want to experiment try looking up the tahoma clinic hCg trials. Basically a 5 week protocol with high doses of hCg. I've seen 1 person that replicated it pretty soon after their injury and got some return back. 
4-ap-3-meoh was popular among people with incomplete injuries for helping to regain and strengthen their return but from what I've seen the main source of it disappeared. 
The peptide ara-290 looks interesting for exciting nerve activity but I haven't seen any studies on sci yet. 
If your injury is still very new you could try bpc-157 to reduce inflammation and possibly lessen the nerve damage.,I would like to know more about this. I did a little looking up and is it only in Washington? Do you have experience here? Cost? I’m very interested.,Was 10 months ago, im already using HCG, thats because im using testosterone to recovery muscle, this week ends my 12 weeks cycle, use more HCG is dangerous, thats because the body becomes dependent to the exogen hormone after 3 months aprox. After 12 weeks, now i can walk without any help. 

I cant find info about 4-ap-3 :(

I am going to try with BPC-157, maybe add TB-500, and look ARA-290Peptide recommendation?,BPC-157 study[BPC-157 in spinal cord injury ](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31266512/)Peptide recommendation?,ISP or Intracelular Sigma Peptide or SNVG-291 

The next generation of peptide for spinal cord injury 

When s gonna happpen?
[ISP Pipeline ](https://www.nervgen.com/our-pipeline/)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Is there anyway to flatten your fingers back out?,Please see a therapist. There are right and wrong ways to do thisIs there anyway to flatten your fingers back out?,If you don't have contractures then you can wear splints that look like paddles on your hands, try when sleeping. If there are contractures then you need surgery and possibly the same splints afterwards.Is there anyway to flatten your fingers back out?,Quad here, My right hand was closed almost like a fist post injury! Docs recommended a tendon transfer. I can’t remember if they took my tendons from my fingers or tendons from my palm but it was pretty successful compared to how it was.

Theirs still a slight curl but I can stretch the out straight and able to pick things up and hold things in my handIs there anyway to flatten your fingers back out?,Not my fingers, but my foot spasms up and stays there. I force stretch it as far as I can a couple of times a day.Is there anyway to flatten your fingers back out?,Your SCI doctor can also do Botox injections to relax the muscles and help stretch them out.Is there anyway to flatten your fingers back out?,Having my fingers completely straight would decrease my independence.  That curl can be really useful.,I agree with this, my therapists in rehab actually taped my hands to get them to curl a bit and now I can grip things quite well between my thumb and forefinger joints. I also get a therapist twice a week to stretch them out and keep them loose, they remain relatively curled thoughIs there anyway to flatten your fingers back out?,Hello.  There are splints one can get.  I am not sure if you get them from the doctor or can get online.  Probably have to go to a prostetic place due to needing correct size.Is there anyway to flatten your fingers back out?,Toes of 1 of my feet are bent. Cuz of which i am unable to wear shoes. Sometime back my ex suggested I should wear bigger size shoes. Since I am tall I don't get bigger shoes that I can purchase. Normally wear UK 11, now have to look for 12 or 13 which aren't easily available. But for your fingers, bent are a boon. My closest bud is a quad and cuz his fingers aren't bent he says it's much easier to hold spoons, drive and hold things.Is there anyway to flatten your fingers back out?,As an incomplete para, I have that issue with some of my toes.  As far as I know there is no way to permanently fix it, but I've found that toe socks help (while they are one, anyway).

Perhaps some type of glove?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I figured it's time for a poll on mobility aids. What do you use most of the time?,Firefly for zipping about town.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Quads and van ramps!,Hi! I don’t know you and what is easy/hard for you, nor do I know what you’ve already tried, but...

- try leaning as far forward as possible.

- try pushrims that are large and have texture. Or try quad push gloves that have texture on them

-consider having your axle adjusted rearward. Keep in mind if you do this it will affect how the chair pushes on flat ground. It will also require re-calibrating the caster square and the wheel locks

-they make winches for vans, to help pull a chair up a ramp. I don’t know how much they cost but you hook the chair to it and it pulls you up a ramp.

Good luck!Quads and van ramps!,an electric winch?Quads and van ramps!,Something that my husband is considering, mostly because we have a wheelchair-bound acquaintance who uses this, is a SmartDrive attachment. This guy mostly relies on his own arm-power to get around, but his impairments extend to his upper body as well so he has a SmartDrive to help give him a boost on steep inclines. This extends to his van, which he rolls into then transfers into the driver's seat which swivels.Quads and van ramps!,If you're in a manual chair and like it I'd suggest an E-fix. It makes your manual power.Quads and van ramps!,Go backwards.  I am *not* strong and have asymmetrical upper body weakness/lost motor function and can go backwards up vehicle ramps pretty well.Quads and van ramps!,Does your van squat? Mine does, it really helps with the steep part. I’m not sure if it’s a retro-fittable option but maybe something to look intoPosted Question, Comment, Reply
T-12 incomplete para 1/12/2013 GSW and a BKA since 11/10/19 by my dog. This was my good leg for almost 7 years.,You're absolutely incredible!! Go you!!!T-12 incomplete para 1/12/2013 GSW and a BKA since 11/10/19 by my dog. This was my good leg for almost 7 years.,Your dog bit your leg off?,Yes. The entire thing while I was asleep.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
8 years after getting shot. T-12 para! First time walking without my walker and pushing 100lbs!,Damn!!!! You’re a beast!!!  So impressed and happy for you. You keep pushing- you don’t know how much of an inspiration you are to me. 💪🏻💚,I lost my leg last November. Just now learning to walk again but with a prosthetic lol. I am so determined, I could never give up!,My husband just got shot last week.  This is nice to see.  I'd love to chat sometime if youd like.8 years after getting shot. T-12 para! First time walking without my walker and pushing 100lbs!,nice! all this on a new leg too!8 years after getting shot. T-12 para! First time walking without my walker and pushing 100lbs!,Woohoo!!! You're an inspiration. Absolutely incredible!8 years after getting shot. T-12 para! First time walking without my walker and pushing 100lbs!,Girl, you honestly rock on that prosthetic. 

To be honest, I didn’t notice you had a prosthetic until I saw the metal reflect and I wondered why your shin was so shiny. Then I felt stupid, lol. 

I’m no PT but your form looks really even too!,Lol thank you!8 years after getting shot. T-12 para! First time walking without my walker and pushing 100lbs!,Go!! Girl!!!8 years after getting shot. T-12 para! First time walking without my walker and pushing 100lbs!,Awesome job! You have put in so much work. Congratulations.8 years after getting shot. T-12 para! First time walking without my walker and pushing 100lbs!,outstanding!!  You’re killing it!  Your gait looks sharp too!!  what an inspiration you are, keep on keeping on!
-T5 para,THANK YOU! I pulled it backwards today😊8 years after getting shot. T-12 para! First time walking without my walker and pushing 100lbs!,wow amazing!! is this a rehab facility or just your regular gym?,Actually it’s called ATF (Adaptive Training Foundation) it’s a non profit.....completely free for people with disabilities! They are amazing.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
NSFW: Self Sexual Stimulation?,If you are able to reach climax for the first time because of what I have shared, that's great.

If you thought it was funny that I thought you could get an infection from not cumming, I'm glad you were entertained.

The story behind my statement, because I care:

About 6 years ago when I went to the bathroom, I noticed my left testicle was swollen quiet large. I went to the ER, where they did a sonogram on my nut. My Dr. said I had gotten an infecrion and explained to me how my testicals are like a bank account. I need to keep my account active by making a withdraw now and then.

Let's pile on the laughter and name calling. Fuck you people. I jusy hope I helped someone.,Haha I agree totally! Fuck then! 🖕🏻🖕🏻🖕🏻🖕🏻🖕🏻🖕🏻
I think that nurse must just be pissed at the world! Prolly flunked out of med school..... trying to be a doctor on Reddit!!!!

One thing is a fact tho the more men can ejaculate the better!NSFW: Self Sexual Stimulation?,No one has ever gotten an infection from not ejaculating.,Yep, I’m a smarter than your average RN with lots of experience in a small ER where I worked very close with the doc. I’ve learned a lot that is way out of my pay grade thanks to him taking the time to explain medicine(all things anatomy, physiology, biology, etc)to me. Any way, enough of my qualifications just to debunk a dumb statement about getting an infection from not ejaculating🙄. There is by no means, any(zip,zilch,none)way, avenue, chance, or miracle that that is biologically, anatomically, or medically possible. Not even in the suspension of reality. This is the dumbest shit I’ve heard since the last time I heard trump say words. Don’t know your reason for claiming that, but I’m just gonna unsay that for you 😉👍🏼,That's what the Dr. told me it was. I'm just sharing to help.NSFW: Self Sexual Stimulation?,What do you use?,Lube: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00G5K7L24/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_apa_i_G8ruFbJNH07QJ

Tube: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0027CU1MQ/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_apa_i_B9ruFb26WEA73Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Living in Texas with an SCI,Texas used to consolidate services under something called DARS, and a couple years back they broke DARS up (is my understanding from a friend who worked at TIRR) and this is what they now have - https://hhs.texas.gov/services/aging/long-term-care/aging-disability-resource-center - it is probably worth reaching out to them directly and asking, especially because sometimes states “have” services but don’t have funding or funding is prioritized (like Utah covers all eligible children before covering eligible adults).Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Advice for turning on an alternating pressure mattress,I'm unsure if there is a similarity between your system and the one the VA had me in which was called a [Dolphin bed](https://www.joerns.com/products/dolphin-fis/). 

On the Dolphin bed there is a setting used when moving a patient which firms up the entire bed to make it easier. Before turning or moving a patient, the nurse would press the button, wait a few seconds, then perform the necessary movement. The bed would automatically return to its previous setting in a few minutes.

See if you can find and download the owner's manual for your bed. I did this and was more knowledgeable than my nurses on operating the bed.,I did try this but had the same issue. Perhaps I didn't wait long enough though. I'll try it again tonight--waiting a few minutes before trying the turn. Thank you for your input. It's really appreciated!Advice for turning on an alternating pressure mattress,It does take a little while for air mattresses to firm up.  Also, consider pulling him over towards you so that he will be not centered but have more space on the side he’s going to be facing.   Then you can put some pillows or quad pads between him and the bed rail/side of the bed.,Thank you! :)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
My SCI Story,I’m T-6 also with horrible Clonus. Try CBD, but tell your doc who is Rx’ing the Baclofen.
Take it all day by day, don’t look ahead. Like the advice to marathon runners-look at your feet and keep running. Don’t look ahead to the horizon and become discouraged by how far you have left to travel.My SCI Story,That is actually great progress in that span of time! That level of improvement in 6 weeks is very promising. I was a C2 incomplete back in 2010 and initially couldn’t move a thing. 6-7 weeks later I could walk with a cane like 90 year old man...very weak and poor balance.

Today I am a physical therapist and have some residual weakness and clonus. I cannot run and walking can be somewhat challenging on certain terrain (downhill is the worst) but you would never be able to tell unless you were specifically looking for something. I live a fairly normal life.

If I can give you one piece of advice it would be to treat your rehab exercises like it is your job and you are a pro athlete. You need frequency and consistency to give yourself the best shot and promote neuroplasticity.,Thank you so much for this response. I am going to start treating my workouts like they’re my full time job. For sure!!My SCI Story,[X-Ray Before](https://imgur.com/gallery/ft6ocwD) 
[X-Ray After](https://imgur.com/gallery/CZNnJVP)My SCI Story,That’s an amazing recovery given the way your films look. Thank you so much for sharing your story. Don’t give up-I’m rooting for you!,Thank you! I’m not giving up!My SCI Story,Every bit of functionality you regain is such a HUGE benefit in the long run. I cannot stress this enough - stretch and work out every single day. Make it a routine now. Time is literally against you. You have good momentum, and your biggest gains will come early on.,Will do, thank you so much!My SCI Story,After putting up with spastic twitching in my legs for years, my doc has started me on a course of Botox with great results. Needs a top up every 3 or 4 months. Only downside I can see is that without the constant twitching, have to be very careful to remember to keep pressure relief happening.My SCI Story,So grateful you shared your story. It’s inspirational. I’m 3.5 years out and still have progress weekly. You do you and focus on your goals. It sounds like your physically and mentally heading in the right direction. Good luck.,Thank you.. try and keep your spirits high as impossible as that sounds sometimes. Good luck to you as well.My SCI Story,Wish you best possible recovery!,Thank you!My SCI Story,Hang in there. There is a new normal for your life now. You certainly have a good attitude and outlook, I'm sure you will be able to achieve all your goals. My son was paralyzed in 2012, no sensation from the chest down. It has been a journey of love, hope and strength. ❤️♥️💕My SCI Story,Interesting how you blacked out and don't remember your incident. I was in a car accident that I don't remember, woke up 5 days later in the ICU with my SCI and other stuff. The brain seems to protect you somehow from intense trauma.,I totally agree. My nearest memory is about three or four days later in ICU. I was in shock or denial for so long that I didn’t even know that I was paralyzed until about three weeks later while in inpatient.My SCI Story,Thank you for sharing your story.My SCI Story,Thanks for sharing your story. I'm in out-patient therapy at the moment and had one of the practitioners basically tell me I'm plateauing in my recovery and will only get better to a point. It really took the wind out of my sails for a few days. I probably wouldn't have pushed myself so hard if I was told that in the beginning. Another SCI peep (a coworker who had a bad car crash 16 years ago) told me F that... I set my own goals and limits. You'll get there, I know it :),That’s right, you better not give up. It’s so unfair and almost unethical that they’d tell us something like that because ultimately “every spinal cord injury is different.” Keep going friendMy SCI Story,Thank you for sharing your story. Great recovery so far! Keep pushing, the first 2 years you can gain a lot back! I wrote a book to share my sci story, if you enjoy reading... here is the link on Amazon https://www.amazon.com/my-chair-yours-Juliana-Carvalho-ebook/dp/B083XMNJBZ/ref=mp_s_a_1_2?keywords=in+my+chair+or+yours&qid=1579514113&sr=8-2My SCI Story,Hang in there man, it gets better and easier. The first six months are the absolute worst, but it sounds like you’re starting to come through the other side of that.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Whats the best kind of Mattress,That depends on how tolerable your skin is and if you get bed sores easily. In rehab they told me that I’d have to sleep in a specialized bed. For SCI memory foam mattress would be the best. But tbh I sleep on a Tempurpedic like mattress and have no issues with bed sores or back pain. But I sleep on my side or stomach and never on my back to take off the pressure of siting during the day. I then bought a bed frame off overstock they let’s me tilt the head up and legs up when I play games and watch tv and stuff.,I'll second this. Memory foam with an adjustable frame works well for me, but lately I've needed to add a 3 inch foam topper because of autonomic dysreflexia problems.Whats the best kind of Mattress,T-1 Para 40 yrs on Latex mattress's NO springs never had a sore . Natural 100% Latex is also dust mite proof & comfortable.Whats the best kind of Mattress,It’s prob overkill, but I’m low air loss every day. Had a stage 4 sacrum wound right outta the hospital. If you guys have ever gone to a wound clinic for 6 months, I’m sure you understand the paranoia. Never going through that again if I can help it.Whats the best kind of Mattress,I like firm spring mattresses. I’ve tried the memory foam ones and since they conform to pressure there’s no “surface” to push against so it makes it so much harder to function like turning, transferring and getting dressed. I had a spring one for years and when I needed to replace it I bought a firm tempurepedic. I didn’t go a month and I exchanged it for a firm spring.

I’ve never had a bed sore. I get dysreflexic so I sweat as a warning when I’m on my side too long.Whats the best kind of Mattress,I have a soft mattress with a pillow top. Works well for me.

Best thing to do is go with a friend to a bed shop. Lie on a mattress for 20 mins then get the friend to check for red marks.Whats the best kind of Mattress,The best mattress is one that's the most comfortable for you while not leaving bed sores. If you're prone to sores or already have them, you should be on a good alternating pressure low air loss mattress. The cheaper you go the louder they will be and pop more often.  
Before my injury I loved my memory foam, but especially after my injury it felt too soft and I would wake up sore. After sleeping on a hotel sping, I discovered they were my new favorite. Just got to find what works for you.  

Also, keep in mind height compared to your chair. I actually spent extra for low profile box springs to drop my bed to the same height as my chair, highly reccomendPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
My parapalegic gf shot herself sitting next to me. Im crushed.,First, I am incredibly sorry for your loss. Secondly, it is NOT your fault. You did everything you could and there is no guilt that belongs to you AT ALL. Depression like that is horrible and there’s a lot of imbalance going on chemically that has not a thing to do with you. You did everything right by loving her and inviting her into your next home. I cannot imagine the shock you were and likely are still in. Please seek counseling. You must talk to a professional. That’s not negotiable, friend. Please make that happen. I was apprehensive about therapy at first and now I really embrace it. 
Best of luck going forward. I know it’s got to be so difficult right now, but again remember you gave love to her and that’s the best thing anyone can do.  I’m sorry she did this and did it in front of you. Talk to someone ASAP. Please come back here anytime you want to talk or vent.My parapalegic gf shot herself sitting next to me. Im crushed.,I'm so sorry for your loss.My parapalegic gf shot herself sitting next to me. Im crushed.,What you have been through is absolutely devastating. Please reach out to friends and family and get some professional help and support. There is help available and you absolutely qualify for it.My parapalegic gf shot herself sitting next to me. Im crushed.,I am getting psych help and therapy.  It is way harder to get in to see someone than it should be. 
She was a punker and we both hated the way US healthcare worked and the stigma behind getting mental help.  She loved nature and the bit of independence she had.  Ever since her surgery being in a car hurt her bad.  With everything closed she couldnt see her friends.  I think it was all too much.  The last thing she wrote in her journal was the full "Fear is the mindkiller" quote. Ive got to put it here so maybe it will help someone else struggling.  I love you all.  I cant read it without crying.

"I must not fear. Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the little-death that brings total obliteration. I will face my fear. I will permit it to pass over me and through me. And when it has gone past I will turn the inner eye to see its path. Where the fear has gone there will be nothing. Only I will remain."My parapalegic gf shot herself sitting next to me. Im crushed.,I'm so sorry for your loss. But you're not guiltyMy parapalegic gf shot herself sitting next to me. Im crushed.,I can't imagine what you're going through right now. I'm so sorry.My parapalegic gf shot herself sitting next to me. Im crushed.,I am so sorry for your loss.My parapalegic gf shot herself sitting next to me. Im crushed.,That's so awful I'm so sorry. You are not in any way guilty.My parapalegic gf shot herself sitting next to me. Im crushed.,This is not your fault. When someone is suicidal it's a whole different state of mind.  It's possible she didn't realize how hurtful that act would be to you.  She just wasn't thinking straight. I do hope you take everyone's advice and talk to someone, not just reddit. Any human would need help processing something like this. I wish you the best.,She was suffering. I believe now she is at peace. I'm so sorry for your loss. Please seek support. The grief subreddits are great. <3My parapalegic gf shot herself sitting next to me. Im crushed.,I'm very sorry for your loss. I don't know all the details but I'm sure she's in a better place now and has found mercy from her pain. There hopefully can be some solace in that at least. She also was probably done with being a dependent. It's a scary way to live - be in pain, have to depend on others especially in America where our healthcare system is set up against us.

Maybe look into talking to some people who are close to you to try and navigate through your grief.

PeaceMy parapalegic gf shot herself sitting next to me. Im crushed.,Oh my gosh. I’m so sorry for your loss. This is not your fault and there was nothing that you “should” have done. You loved her and provided a safe trusted space to the extent that you knew she needed one. 

Some demons seem too much to overcome when you’re mired in depression and people with depression are really good at hiding it. 

Much love to you. Feel free to reach out if you want to talk.My parapalegic gf shot herself sitting next to me. Im crushed.,I am so very sorry for your loss. My heart goes out to you. Please do not hesitate to reach out if you'd like someone to talk to.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
C2 fracture at 18 years old, can someone experienced walk me through a this?,Where are you located, let's see if we can find some local voices,probably not, i live in turkey. I just wanted to talk to someone about this whole thing, that's allC2 fracture at 18 years old, can someone experienced walk me through a this?,Man, I had my injury at 31, but I was definitely still peaking. It was awful to feel like I lost my whole life and things were very dark for awhile. Once I hit rock bottom, things got a lot better and I haven't looked back. How's your mobility and everything?,There's no loss in movement. But there's a numb area on my left chest and there are these pins and needles feeling in my left arm sometimesPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Bladder,Did they have you on a catheter that sayed in you and was attached to a urin bag? 
Because what happens is because u used to hold it and go every 4 hour ur body was used to it and had some muscles due to use of it.. But when u have the other one whenever u have liquid in ur blatter then it goes out right away your no longer holding it so ur body go used to just letting it out... Try to hold it in for 4 hours if possible but if needed do it 3 hrs so ur body gets used to being on a schedule again...Bladder,Common after having an indwelling catheter for a while. Give it time and it should get better.Bladder,Thanks for the answers.

I went to the doctor and he thinks its something in between.

The catheter and maybe a virus in my urine.

He gave me some medication, hope it works.Bladder,How's your fluid intake? Any change in pattern? Did you change the tube you are using? Measure within how many hours you are leaking and share. Could probably give some pointers. This is too narrow an input to share any feedback.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Got invited to a new accessible hiking path that was not very...accessible,Had the same experience.  "Accessible" trails with loose dirt, steep (for us) slopes, or are not maintained and get covered with beach sand, or they're too narrow and barely fit a chair, or -- my favorite -- they've got those zig-zag entrance paths that are supposed to block bikes or horses or whatever but, of course, they block us, too.

I don't even know if I'd say it's great they they're simply trying, because it sucks to go online and see a trail listed as accessible, then pack up and drive to it only to discover it's really not.,Yeah you are right! It’s super frustrating! I think if this was a trail that was listed online as accessible and I took the time to go there only to find the things you listed I’d be ripped! I guess I cut them some slack because they asked me to come test it and give feedback on what worked and what didn’t and how they can improve it! I wanted to say, want to make it accessible? Build wood paths haha those are the best kinds of trails I’ve been on in my injury experience!Got invited to a new accessible hiking path that was not very...accessible,I don't recommend visiting any of the "accessible" fishing spots scattered around Montana.,Oh man I’m in Massachusetts, I went to a local accessible fishing spot that had an “accessible dock”, this thing was on a cliff haha accessible for a bird maybe.Got invited to a new accessible hiking path that was not very...accessible,If anyone is in Utah, the folks at Neuroworx are 100% reliable on what’s truly accessible and they are really big supporters/advocates of accessible outdoor activities and sports.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Numbness on a part of my shoulder-chest area after c2 fracture? Pls help,All injuries are different. My thumb is numb since my accident. No reason why.Numbness on a part of my shoulder-chest area after c2 fracture? Pls help,Have you been evaluated for a brachial plexus injury?  The testing is a lot of zapping with various levels of discomfort but it’s worth exploring because then you can plan around recovery.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Have you used massage as a tool in your recovery?,I am 2 years post incomplete spinal cord injury and massage and chiro is a massive part of my pain treatment. The only thing I worry about in your dad’s case is how fresh the injury is. I would 100% check with the dr to make sure it’s ok to be massaged so soon. I waited at least 9 or 10 months before I would have been able to handle lying on a massage bed, but everyone’s injury is different! It depends on the levels and if there were any other injuries.,Thanks! I think we will check with his original surgeon on his follow up appointment in 2 weeks. The massage therapist is willing to massage him while he’s in the wheelchair which I thought could be a nice start.Have you used massage as a tool in your recovery?,Not much experience but I tried massaging partners feet and it set his phantom nerve pain off like crazy. 
But anything is worth a try!Have you used massage as a tool in your recovery?,I have had massage both in acute rehab and afterwards and found it really helpful.  The only caution I would offer is if he has nerve pain the stimulation may trigger some hypersensitivity so be aware of any wrinkles/positioning issues before and after.Have you used massage as a tool in your recovery?,I use a massage gun on my legs every single day and it help immensely. Decreases my soreness from PT and tightness that my muscles get from tone.Have you used massage as a tool in your recovery?,Look into deep tissue massage. It is very helpful keeping muscles loose and keeping pain down. I spent 8 years going to a regular massage therapist and I regret it, although it did help I would have been able to prevent damage if I went to a deep tissue massage therapist all that time. They understand anatomy and how things are connected. Not sure if he had hardware but over time our bodies adapt to having hardware and can change how that area operates. I would advise any newly injured person to try DTM and acupuncture!Have you used massage as a tool in your recovery?,You know what else I found really helpful is dry needling.  Depending on where you are it might be a PT or an acupuncturist or a massage therapist but I found 1. incredibly painful but it doesn’t hurt for long and was completely worth it because 2. huge increases in range of motion.,I hate dry needling but it is worth it afterwords! Just hate when they shake the needle a little to loosen muscle!,My gf used to slowly lose sensation in her fingers and dry needling periodically helped her immensely.,Thanks for this! My chiropractor did mention acupuncture. Curious do you do it in the areas where you have no feeling? He has no movement from his chest down. Would the needling/acupuncture be done in his legs? Or more in his arms, shoulders, etc? 

I tried dry needling on my neck last year after having pain for months. It was terrifying to me but I would be willing to try again. 😬Have you used massage as a tool in your recovery?,I use a theragun during PT sessions to help my scaps be less tight as being in a chair those muscles get super tight and then at night I use a head massager on my legs to try and send a signal from down to up. Since signals are sent from the brain down it’s also nice to try and send them the other way. Massaging also helps with spasms and keeping muscles loose. I wasn’t able to feel vibrations two months ago and now I can feel vibrations and sometimes the massage device it self on my upper thighs. I’m 9 months post.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Does having a spinal cord injury make you feel old?,Brother, I’m in my 40s and live in an assisted living facility… You have no idea. But don’t feel bad, those years at the end of your life that are getting shaved off are the ones you don’t want anyway :),Are there people your age there? Or is it all elderly...?Does having a spinal cord injury make you feel old?,\*shrug\* it is what it is. I had an opportunity to take a well paid job in NYC but knew that during the winter I would have a lot of problems navigating the streets. Plus I would either have a suck ass car commute or do the subway, which is a gamble in a chair (elevators breaking all the time). Thats life in a chair.,Oh my God I completely forgot about this. I've had so many job offers that I had to turn down because just being there in a wheelchair was not viable.Does having a spinal cord injury make you feel old?,I feel old everyday now. I've only recently started to walk again, but it's not walking, it's toddling and only short distances. Everything below injury feels stiff and wrong or it doesn't feel at all. I feel like I'm 80 instead of 44.Does having a spinal cord injury make you feel old?,😂 I'm in the same situation right nowDoes having a spinal cord injury make you feel old?,Yes. 100%. After my first surgery I had a lot of issues with my joints below the waist. My arthritis would flare up and my knees and ankles were always stiff. It hurt to stretch. I walked with a cane and I had to limp everywhere. Fast-forward 7 years to my most recent surgery and the answer is still yes. The stiffness in my joints and the pain while stretching is much better, except it's taking forever to heal. Also, this time I could walk right afterward. My first surgery left me paralyzed for a few months. 

Having to use a cane, park in handicap spaces, and use the electric carts is all embarrassing. People look at me like I'm faking. That doesn't bother me as much as it used to, but it makes me feel old.Does having a spinal cord injury make you feel old?,I’m 30 and have hip issues that are quite painful, so yeah.Does having a spinal cord injury make you feel old?,T5/6 complete, coming up to 33 years SCI (I'm 63). Yeah, feeling physically older than your years seems to be part of the deal. Using a manual wheelchair actually helps a lot, the aches and pains subside a bit after the first mile, but the downside is that arms are not legs and that shoulders wear out after 25 years or so (I had a complete rupture of both LHS rotator cuff tendons about 7 years ago, beyond realistic repair). 

I did work full-time for about 20 years up until a couple of years ago, which didn't particularly help my health but took my mind off the crap, mostly, and kept me moving. I have more issues now since I retired, although they may have been coming anyway.Does having a spinal cord injury make you feel old?,Not until I decided to feel old that I feel old. Until last year I was all for crazy parties, all nighters and everything. And then after realizing that I have hit 32, suddenly there was a flip switch that turn it seems like that now I think I feel old. There is a mental block that a person develops psychologically which has a major role to play than just physiological reasons. You are as old as you want to feel yourself to be.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Did your sexual function/sensation or desire return over time after your injury? How long did it take and how much did it return?,We have a pretty similar level of injury (I’m L5/S1.) I had zero sexual function for about six months after my injury. I couldn’t feel anything at all. Mine did gradually come back but it took time and I’m pretty convinced that toys played a big role in that. I learned how to orgasm without sensation at first, and that seemed to be a trigger to having sensation come back, like my body was re-learning those connection. I’m sure some of it was also just a natural improvement over time but I still have areas elsewhere with no sensation so I don’t think it’s completely unfounded. 

There are toys designed for spinally injured men, though I can’t remember the name at the moment. Hopefully someone will be able to help. You could also have a look at the “hummingbird” attachment for the Hitachi wand, designed for men. I’ve heard a couple of guys say that it was effective for them.,Pretty much the same - took me 6 months, feeling isn't as good but it works.Did your sexual function/sensation or desire return over time after your injury? How long did it take and how much did it return?,My injury is T12/L5 incomplete. It took me almost 2 years after injury to orgasm again. I think it also had to do with my greatly lessening the amount of opiate painkillers I was prescribed at the time (which would be 2008/09) because I got a full erection I could feel (after kinda having a couple here and there) and I masturbated successfully. Although I can’t walk or even stand, I have some movement on my left side but it’s spotty and my feeling in my penis isn’t 100% but it’s enough and I am able to masturbate to completion.Did your sexual function/sensation or desire return over time after your injury? How long did it take and how much did it return?,T8 complete. No return of sexual function and really since I can orgasm I don’t see the point in trying to hook up.Did your sexual function/sensation or desire return over time after your injury? How long did it take and how much did it return?,Ability is really hard to judge because SCI’s differ so much between complete and incomplete injuries and level of injury. 

I can tell ya my story tho lol. I spent the first 5 years not being able to maintain an erection or orgasm/ejaculate. Until I started surfing forums and learned some things to try. Now I use a tens unit to orgasm/ejaculate pretty regularly.  I also went to the urologist about ED and we found a solution that worked for me. I now use a tri/mix injection that’s pretty much an instant 2 hr hard on lol. Which some women have loved. tri/mix is relatively affordable. 80$ can last me over 6 months.  

Now I’m a t5 complete para, so no feeling at all below injury. That being said I do get some weird tingly sensations with stimulation. And when I do orgasm it does feel like a relief sensation.  And I feel like I still get that good feeling in your head after  where you get the flood of endorphins etc...

I was a horny MFer before my injury and that has changed very little for me lol. With the tri/mix injection and the intimate rider along with the other items in my adult toy box I feel my sex life is as close to normal as it can be.  

Like 60% or more of SCI are able to orgasm/ejaculate after injury. Be it with a medical grade ferticare vibrator or other ways. I posted a video earlier that kinda talked about a lot of it.Did your sexual function/sensation or desire return over time after your injury? How long did it take and how much did it return?,Yes and no.

I have erectile dysfunction now so that has never changed.

As far as desire, my desire is on the mental and it's not physical. Sex is something that I want to do but it's not a physical urge anymore.

I think the best way to describe it for me is the best analogy is the transition becoming a runner or a gym rat. At first you want to go to the gym or you want to run. Eventually it becomes physical and you just kind of have to do it. That physical side is no longer there.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Advice for fixing wheelchair posture (T4 complete),If you are T4 complete, the muscles needed to maintain a fully upright position are not innervated. You should see a seating specialist for a better seating setup. With the right wheelchair configuration, cushion, and backrest you should be able to propel, reach, whatever you need to do with both arms while still sitting with good posture. There are simple fixes (like adding dump to your wheelchair), more moderate solutions (more contoured backrest) and complex solutions (fully customized seating system, like RIDE),Thank you so much! I didn’t know there were seating specialists—I’ll look into that! My doctor pretty much gave up on me, which is strange because my case isn’t as severe as others’. Thanks!Advice for fixing wheelchair posture (T4 complete),You already got some great advice, I just wanted to add that if you push a manual chair your muscles in the pec area tend to get more developed and can tighten up, which actually pulls your shoulders inward and gives them that rounded shape that many manual users get.  Try workouts that develop muscles around the upper back and shoulder blades, basically areas that are not worked out by pushing a chair.  

Also try opening up the tension in your chest muscles by stretching them. I do this in bed: I lay on my side (and partially toward my back, pillows may be needed behind hips for support) and let one bent arm fall back behind me while squeezing my shoulder blades together, 2-4 times for 10 seconds, then repeat for the other side.  Or any way you can find to stretch the area could help.,Thank you so much! I appreciate the help so so much!Advice for fixing wheelchair posture (T4 complete),Everyone has given solid advice, the only thing I would add is that if you do not have a solid back to your chair that would be the place to start. Also not sure how others feel but having armrests on a manual chair as a t4 sounds fishy. That would mess up my pushing hard out. I would consider how your situation would change without them,Yep, I aired out my concerns about the armrests, but my parents, who were paying for the wheelchair, insisted on them. Hoping to get a better wheelchair based on the advice here! Thank you so much!Advice for fixing wheelchair posture (T4 complete),Great question.

After nearly 40 years in a chair, I look like the letter 'C.' And I'm 6'7". I *used* to have wonderful posture. I've been weightlifting since before my injury; my back muscles are amply strong. But, as others have noted, there just aren't enough muscles still working in the *right* areas to help me straighten out.

Best wishes on your endeavor!Advice for fixing wheelchair posture (T4 complete),I don't know about workouts but a proper wheelchair setup, with the right amount of dump, the right cushion, and a rigid backrest, potentially with deep contour, is where I would start.  Feet/leg placement in the chair can also affect the rotation of your hips which feed into your posture and lumbar lordosis as well.

It is surprising a rehab PT says they can't do anything to help.  That sounds weird.  Are they RESNA ATP certified as a seating specialist?,Thank you for the wheelchair advice! I wish wheelchairs were less expensive—in my country accessible devices aren’t covered by any insurance. Thank you! Will also check out seating specialists! My doctor basically gave up on me lolAdvice for fixing wheelchair posture (T4 complete),How high is the back on your wheelchair and is it almost straight? I have a hard time maintaining a straight posture in a wheelchair that has a back that is too high that doesn't have lumbar support. A wheelchair back that sits lower and contacts less of my upper back allows me to sit straighter.,Thank you so much! It’s pretty high, imo, and way too soft—probably why my back hurts so often hahaAdvice for fixing wheelchair posture (T4 complete),I’m a t5 complete and I just ordered a tilite titanium ergo seating chair. When I was testing them it was like night and day the difference between the ergo seating and my chair now. When it finally gets done I’ll post a pic on here.Advice for fixing wheelchair posture (T4 complete),If you have the capability of pulling your shoulders back so that your shoulder blade pinch inward, then I may be able to strengthen it a bit and improve some, but I’d also see if you could maybe get a small back brace because prolonged poor posture can cause serious issues later on in life.,Thank you so much! Is the back brace you’re thinking of similar to an abdominal binder, or something stiffer?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Yet another girl rejected me,Dating with SCI is tough, if you are "getting function back" that probably means you are fairly recently injured. I would focus on my recovery, date when you are in a more stable place,It’s been two years so yeah fairly recent. I’ve thought about only waiting to begin dating again after I’m more independent and can walk on my own but I’m not sure how long that’ll take. Two years is already a long time without any kind of physical or emotional satisfaction I’m not sure how much longer I can take 😞Yet another girl rejected me,Hey, so you’ve had some good advice about dating with an SCI already so I just wanted to add that Match.com has been sued by the FTC for false advertising and fake profiles. If you want to keep online dating, maybe try other sites like Hinge or Bumble. (Tinder is owned by the same people as Match; I’ve found Tinder to be good overall because it has the most people of any dating app in most areas but there’s also a high proportion of crap to be honest.) 

I agree that taking a bit of time to focus on yourself and your recovery is a good idea as well. You could even put some of the money you would be spending on dating towards therapy - it may not be your bag but honestly I didn’t realise how badly I needed therapy after my injury. It was more traumatic and had a bigger impact on my mental health than I expected. So if you think it might be helpful, maybe try it out - dating takes a lot of resilience so I think therapy can only help with that!,I wanted to second the therapy idea. I know it is super intimidating to make the first step to "go see someone." But it is really helpful after such a major physical/life change. The way I thought about myself pre therapy compared to after therapy was very different. 

I think that getting to know yourself and making personal goals for yourself with the help of a therapist will put you in a better space in life to meet your person. 

I know it helped me find the potential I couldn't see in myself. I was already with someone at the time. But our relationship was pretty rocky at times. After I started working on myself, we got a lot better together. We are happily married now. 

There are some online options for reaching a therapist, and I'm sure lots locally to you. betterhelp.com and talkspace.com are a couple that I know of that have good reviews. 

I wish you the very best!Yet another girl rejected me,I'm sorry you are going through this. I can assure you, speaking as a T12 - L1 incomplete - that there are many women out there that wouldn't see your disability as a deal breaker, or even an issue at all.

I've had many flings, one night stands, and a few committed relationships since my accident. In fact, I'm currently in one that is rapidly approaching the one year mark.

I also have many friends who are in wheelchairs who live fulfilling romantic lives.

It's definitely possible. :-)Yet another girl rejected me,You have to first have confidence in yourself, love you for who “you” are!Yet another girl rejected me,Don’t give up and don’t settle brother! You are worth it and you deserve happiness, don’t ever stop searching until you find someone who lights your soul on fire!Yet another girl rejected me,You will find somebody one day who can look beyond your disability and appreciate you for what you are. Sure there are things you’ll never be able to do, but look on the positive side. My injury is worse than yours (C5) and I’m happily married to an able bodied person. I have limited mobility in my arms and am a full time user.Yet another girl rejected me,> There’s still many things I can’t do. And maybe won’t be able to do ever.

Speaking as someone who is not physically disabled but has chronic illnesses, I have thought similarly. I can see why you would think of those (particularly now), but focus on what you *can* do and any alternative ways to do what you can't. On the subject of dating, you can still go out for dinner, bring a girl flowers, and talk with her for hours.

> What do I have to give?

More than you can possibly imagine at the moment. You can still give her your heart and a lifetime of happiness that she would not be able to get from anyone else. I agree with the others that you should focus on you right now. You will discover a lot more about yourself to love, be proud of, and better.

Good luck out there!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Neuralink livestream from last night; seriously talking about a cure for sci. Thoughts?,the first thing I will do is to go and have a nice pee in the bush,I’d like to feel the sand between my toes or my feet on grass again.Neuralink livestream from last night; seriously talking about a cure for sci. Thoughts?,Hope.Neuralink livestream from last night; seriously talking about a cure for sci. Thoughts?,It’s so often that we see articles where scientists have made some kind of breakthrough and there’s some sort of glimmer of hope in our world, but this is different. I think this is real. I’ve been following NeuraLink For a long time now. A few years ago I read a huge essay on the company. It’s really exciting to actually see something that one day might be implanted in humans.

I had a really down day yesterday and it’s really nice seeing this today.,Those days are inevitable unfortunately. Even when we’re handling business, exercising daily, eating right...you’ll get that feeling like you’re on a high roller coaster. You look down like, “what in the actual fk happened to me?”. Keep swinging, brother ♿️ a little hope always helpsNeuralink livestream from last night; seriously talking about a cure for sci. Thoughts?,I don't see any reason why the signals can't be transferred between two of this devices located opposite sides of scar tissue on spinal cord. It's been proven that below the site of injury signals can be transmitted.since surgery is so precise that it goes between the blood vessels hence not causing bleeding and damage to tissue i don't see why they shouldn't be able to install lets say 3 or 4 of this babies below the injury. I'd volunteer early but unfortunately there's not enough urgency to help paralyzed people. Nobody understands the daily physical and emotional pain we have to endure. That said this is exciting news, can't wait for first human trials. Mark my words whoever gets this install will regain some movement on day 1 of the trials. Hope FDA doesn't slow them down.Neuralink livestream from last night; seriously talking about a cure for sci. Thoughts?,Eventually, sure. Probably sooner than economical fusion power plants, but it'll be a fairly close race.,In other words, not very soonNeuralink livestream from last night; seriously talking about a cure for sci. Thoughts?,There have been other non corporate agencies working on similar technologies. What Musk seemed to show didn't seem to be an estimated reality more advanced than what already exists, it looked like a way to prepare the public to want and buy his products (he even is interested in having you buy upgrades before they even exist...) 

These devices should be advertised in a medical setting, not a corproate one. Not saying not to have hope, but be weary of CEO promisesNeuralink livestream from last night; seriously talking about a cure for sci. Thoughts?,Can't wait to see what they have once they have a full team. Right now they have 100. Imagine 10,000 employees! That's the target. Not expecting it to be a cure but I told myself if anyone o wanted to work on a solution for sci it would be Elon musk..Neuralink livestream from last night; seriously talking about a cure for sci. Thoughts?,I think it’s a very promising therapy, and unlike the go2 system also has the potential to treat complete injuries! Very exciting stuffPosted Question, Comment, Reply
I am medically considered the highest level quadriplegic possible. at ''C0'' no one is higher than me.,I can not feel or move anything from the chin down. I basically only have face movement. I was paralyzed three years ago in a car accident. But I am so happy to be alive!,You. Are. Awesome. Good vibes coming your way.,You have an amazing attitude and I'm grateful that I saw your post. We often take things for granted in our day-to-day lives, including just being alive itself. 

My journey was inspired by phenomenal people with the same positive outlook at you and my journey continues because of reminders like the one you shared today.

I wish you both happiness and love, and thank you again for making a difference in my day!,Elon Mask is doing neuralink presentation on YouTube literally while I'm typing this. Try to get in touch with them.I am medically considered the highest level quadriplegic possible. at ''C0'' no one is higher than me.,What a beautiful picture! I love the flowers you have growing on your front porch! So vibrantly red! 🤗🌹🌺,Those are my Mom's flowers. She loves gardening.I am medically considered the highest level quadriplegic possible. at ''C0'' no one is higher than me.,Well, damn... I smoked not too long ago and got pretty high but you take the cake!I am medically considered the highest level quadriplegic possible. at ''C0'' no one is higher than me.,Well, look at you up on your HIGH horse! :P I'm happy you're alive too! Keep rocking it!I am medically considered the highest level quadriplegic possible. at ''C0'' no one is higher than me.,Congratulations! 😅 but seriously, you look fantastic! Love that smile!I am medically considered the highest level quadriplegic possible. at ''C0'' no one is higher than me.,Decided to play life on hardcore mode, I see. Respect.I am medically considered the highest level quadriplegic possible. at ''C0'' no one is higher than me.,Youre awesome!I am medically considered the highest level quadriplegic possible. at ''C0'' no one is higher than me.,Hats off to you! (C4)I am medically considered the highest level quadriplegic possible. at ''C0'' no one is higher than me.,Beautiful smile and beautiful spirit!I am medically considered the highest level quadriplegic possible. at ''C0'' no one is higher than me.,Hello Pink, I envy your positive attitude!  How do you do it?
My situation pales in comparison to you.

I have a chronic pain condition caused by rheumatoid arthritis of the spine (Ankylosing Spondylitis) and a back surgery gone wrong resulting in a debilitating disease named Acute Adhesive Arachnoiditis.  It causes scar tissue and globular like cysts to form within the spine and around spinal nerves.  Above the waist, I am OK, except for pain.  Below the waist, my legs don't function so well, lost a lot of feeling in lower legs and feet.  I have a lot of intense pain in my legs, which seems strange since I can't feel much anymore.  It is a struggle to balance myself, I really have to be careful of falling.  I can barely walk using canes or a walker.  My situation is progressive, meaning as time passes my situation is getting worse.

Enough about me!  I hope your situation is stable, pain-free,  and that you have a good support system.  Most of all, I hope you are able to find ways to make you happy.,I have no neuropathic pain so I live pain free. I am sorry about your situation. In terms of me staying positive? well some days I am not so positive. But I do try to keep my spirits up by looking forward to the future.,How are you managing your arachnoiditis? I have it too from a stupid spinal tap.I am medically considered the highest level quadriplegic possible. at ''C0'' no one is higher than me.,Winner! ;-)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I got my first vehicle after having my accident!,Congratulations on your ride. I  had a 1998 dodge caravan with no modification just the middle seat was taken away so i can pull my wheelchair up without having to fold or break it down.. it worked fine for me until my transmission busted. I now use readiwheels for when i want to go somewhere i just call a day ahead.. if i need to feel the road agien i rent a car from Getaround and use my portable handcontrols..I got my first vehicle after having my accident!,I recently switched from driving a car for 35 yrs to a van because my shoulders can't make the transfer anymore. I've owned just about every 2 door model out there to put the folding chair behind the seat. No doubt the van has advantages for wheelchair drivers BUT I really miss the early pick-up speed, gas mileage with a car & the biggest factor PARKING is absolutely horrible with the van!!  With a side ramp it's really tough to use a regular handicapped spot because people park over the lines & your unable to get your ramp out. 

Good Luck ANY vehicle is our freedom out into the world so enjoy!!,So true! And the reason I went with the van is partly because of your issue: the shoulders. I’ve heard too many horror stories of people needing rotator cuff surgery while in wheelchairs. It’s a beast and I’m used to cars as well. It’s definitely a learning curve!I got my first vehicle after having my accident!,Congratulations!I got my first vehicle after having my accident!,Thats a good news story !!!  ALRIGHTI got my first vehicle after having my accident!,Congrats!!!!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Does anyone else enjoy bladder spasms?,That’s cool man! I’m still trying to figure out how to ejaculate. I’m 2 years post, c5 complete. I’ve tried just about everything including a $800 ferticare. Funny thing is, I get the most pleasure and feel I get the closest by just rubbing on it through a pair of thin gym shorts, lol. Sounds weird but it helps with the friction, kinda hard to explain but I’m hoping one day I finally get to the “end”. Either way, it feels pretty damn good. 

That’s really interesting, and like you said, I’d take it. Isn’t crazy how “weird” our bodies can be? Can’t say I’ve heard anyone else feel the same thing as you. But hey you never know, could be the next post.Does anyone else enjoy bladder spasms?,Hi! I'm pretty new to the subreddit and I'm interested in learning more about SCI, especially as it relates to the bladder -- what's your opinion been of suprapubic catheters? Do you still use a bag to collect urine, similar to Foley/intermittent catheters?,Yes I use a medium leg bag during the day and a night bag overnight. Catheters generally suck but I have no other options I suppose. Sorry for taking so long to get back to you.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Quadriplegic Vlog - Can you exercise from a wheelchair?,Agreed. I’m up at 5, pushing around my neighborhood...and I’m the only one out there. Keep crushing it 💙♿️,Thank you, you too man!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Quads, what do you drive?,Not a Quad, but I did just get a Subaru Crosstrek and I absolutely love it. Can't wait for the snow!,Love my Subaru Outback!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
New netflix disabled sports documentary,I watched this just a couple of hours ago and it was pretty interesting. Not entirely based with SCI, more varying impairments and some history of the paralympics but pretty good overall.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I am a paraplegic T-7 sex positive woman. After years of being embarrassed by my body, I have finally grown confidence and I am now a sex worker. I work mostly with devotees. I try to educate people about sexuality n disablities so that we can be seen as sexual beings and not just a disablity. PM me,Rad shirt!,Thanks so much ❤️I am a paraplegic T-7 sex positive woman. After years of being embarrassed by my body, I have finally grown confidence and I am now a sex worker. I work mostly with devotees. I try to educate people about sexuality n disablities so that we can be seen as sexual beings and not just a disablity. PM me,May I ask what is a 'devotee'?,It is somebody with a wheelchair fetish or a kink for the disabledI am a paraplegic T-7 sex positive woman. After years of being embarrassed by my body, I have finally grown confidence and I am now a sex worker. I work mostly with devotees. I try to educate people about sexuality n disablities so that we can be seen as sexual beings and not just a disablity. PM me,The shirt and pants are rad and all, but why is no one addressing the awesome hamburger socks? Even more so, I'm in love with your tattoos!

Thank you for being open for the rest of us; representation in all dynamics really is important. I hope you don't mind, I've DMed you.,Thank you so much for your kind words. I'm an open book, feel free to message me up anytimeI am a paraplegic T-7 sex positive woman. After years of being embarrassed by my body, I have finally grown confidence and I am now a sex worker. I work mostly with devotees. I try to educate people about sexuality n disablities so that we can be seen as sexual beings and not just a disablity. PM me,I am sorry about your paraplegia but ever happy for your new-found pride and confidence.  That's cool you have turned your situation into a revenue generator.  As the saying goes, when life hands you lemons make lemonade!

Are your clients mostly other paras and quads?  Or, persons who have a wheelchair fetish?

I'm sure you are careful, but please protect yourself from STD's and especially all the creeps out there.,I only work online bc I'm married so I don't worry about STDs. The majority of my subscribers are people with wheelchair fetishes...since I can't really see who the people are besides their profile, which is minimal,, I really have no idea who they are lolokI am a paraplegic T-7 sex positive woman. After years of being embarrassed by my body, I have finally grown confidence and I am now a sex worker. I work mostly with devotees. I try to educate people about sexuality n disablities so that we can be seen as sexual beings and not just a disablity. PM me,Everyone is commenting on the shirt and I am too, I fucking love NOFX since like ‘95 when I was 15! Now I’m 41 and paraplegic since 2006 and loving that you also love NOFX! Yeah for being a sex worker! Under appreciated for sure!,You are kind! Thank you so much! NOFX is the best 🙃,This is my exact description minus 2 years.I am a paraplegic T-7 sex positive woman. After years of being embarrassed by my body, I have finally grown confidence and I am now a sex worker. I work mostly with devotees. I try to educate people about sexuality n disablities so that we can be seen as sexual beings and not just a disablity. PM me,Who the hell are you to tell me how to live my life?

You think I sell my body; I merely sell my time

I ain't no Cinderella, I ain't waiting for no prince

To save me in fact until just now I was doin' just fine

And on and on...

♿️❤️,Fuck yes! NOFX all day 🙃,PUNK IN DRUBLIC ALL DAY!!!I am a paraplegic T-7 sex positive woman. After years of being embarrassed by my body, I have finally grown confidence and I am now a sex worker. I work mostly with devotees. I try to educate people about sexuality n disablities so that we can be seen as sexual beings and not just a disablity. PM me,Liiiissaaaa had put down a few, when she met this girl name Lou

who convinced her to come home with her,

she said "my name's Louise, and will u take your clothes off please? I wanna take you to the moon and back, so get on your back"

Sry I LOVED that song in high school! One of the only few songs I have fully memorized and sing when I'm alone.

I'm not disabled really I'm more.. I guess you could say "severely impaired" but it's complicated as I'm sure you're situation is too.

I'm happy you found your way to get by! I know first hand how difficult it can be trying to get a decent groove going with life when you have this mental and physical obstacle to overcome like disability or chronic pain.

Also with being a sex worker imo that will be something that will become more and more legit and valid like it should be in due time. It will hopefully stop being a grey market sort of job and more of a regulated "freelance contractor" type of job with some more oversight for safety.

I know someone very close to me who works in the sex industry and it's just not what most people assume. It's done with respect and dignity and it's done very safe.

If she doesn't get treated like a princess she quickly will move onto the other 100,000 guys who gladly will.

&#x200B;

What do you mean by "I work mostly with devotees"? I don't really understand what you mean with that statement.

If you don't mind this question - do you have any feeling lower than T-7? Do you suffer any pain? I ask because I had a major surgery to my low back when I was young and it has caused constant problems in my life. It's a special kind of pain imo, at least sciatic pain/nerve pain is...

Glad to hear you're doing well :)

peace,Devotees are people with a fetish for disabilities and wheelchairs. I have no movement below t7 but I do have some feeling. I do suffer from pain but I take care of myself and move around alotI am a paraplegic T-7 sex positive woman. After years of being embarrassed by my body, I have finally grown confidence and I am now a sex worker. I work mostly with devotees. I try to educate people about sexuality n disablities so that we can be seen as sexual beings and not just a disablity. PM me,Nice! Live your life how you want !I am a paraplegic T-7 sex positive woman. After years of being embarrassed by my body, I have finally grown confidence and I am now a sex worker. I work mostly with devotees. I try to educate people about sexuality n disablities so that we can be seen as sexual beings and not just a disablity. PM me,You are beautiful. Nice tattoos as well.,So kind of you thank you so much ❤️I am a paraplegic T-7 sex positive woman. After years of being embarrassed by my body, I have finally grown confidence and I am now a sex worker. I work mostly with devotees. I try to educate people about sexuality n disablities so that we can be seen as sexual beings and not just a disablity. PM me,[removed],Sexuality and disability are hard for some people to mend into one. But once you realize what works well for you and your partner the sex can be quite amazing. I wish you two the best of luck ❤️I am a paraplegic T-7 sex positive woman. After years of being embarrassed by my body, I have finally grown confidence and I am now a sex worker. I work mostly with devotees. I try to educate people about sexuality n disablities so that we can be seen as sexual beings and not just a disablity. PM me,Sex is like my number one interest after SCI now lol. And I’m glad you embraced yours!  A lot of people think that people with disabilities are not interested in sex or desirable anymore and that’s bullshit. I’m still the same horny fucker I was b4 my injury. 

Guess it’s time to start my male wheelchair escort service! $$$$$,Hahha escort on wheels! 😝 
What a convenient service!!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
My husband got shot and has damage to his l1l2 vertebra and is having neuropathic pain. Does anyone have advice on long term nerve pain care?,Does he have a physiatrist?  He should.  They should be creating a pain management plan for him.  I've been an L1/T12 para for 15 years and still have chronic neuropathic pain.  There are meds that help.  Some of it is also tone/spasticity.  Meds can take the edge off but it is rare that it ever fully goes away.  Often it gets worse over time, unfortunately.  Neurontin/Gabapentin are common places to start.  Elavil is another.  (For lots of people anti-depressants like that help too.  Sometimes the depressive effects of chronic pain make it far harder to cope with over time.)   A muscle relaxer like baclofen is another common helper for tone related pain (often mistaken for 'neuro' pain by newer injuries.)  A physiatrist is the doctor best equipped to help with this IMO.,Thanks so much for your reply. This is all so new for us.  The shooting only happened Wednesday afternoon and hasnt yet has a surgery to fuse his spine (they were still stabilizing him after 2 surgeries just to keep him alive). The biggest thing hes worried about right now is this pain lasting long term.My husband got shot and has damage to his l1l2 vertebra and is having neuropathic pain. Does anyone have advice on long term nerve pain care?,My non-medical-professional advice would be to have him start taking a magnesium supplement. Also get a magnesium oil spray if he has any “surface level” pain - twitches or spasms along the skin, hypersensitivity, and/or cramps. It’s not a miracle but it’s the closest I’ve found and magnesium has made a bigger difference to my life than any other drug or supplement since my injury. 

This should definitely be combined with any pain control that is prescribed by a doctor; it doesn’t replace gabapentin, etc. But everyone in my SCI group takes some form of magnesium and we all agree that it’s a life-changer post-injury.My husband got shot and has damage to his l1l2 vertebra and is having neuropathic pain. Does anyone have advice on long term nerve pain care?,I literally  have the same injury but t12 vertebrae.  I take gabapentin and Lyrica but use cbd cream as well on my back which helps immensely.,Also have same injury t12 due to Gsw gabapentin works real good, only problem is it takes away a lot of feeling that you want I lost some feet movement and sensation when they put me on 900 of it too soon.  It works thoMy husband got shot and has damage to his l1l2 vertebra and is having neuropathic pain. Does anyone have advice on long term nerve pain care?,As a person who has suffered with nerve pain for 25 years, I would say the two critical factors are getting a solid neurologist and a pain management doctor.  The neuro can run a EMG/ NCV to validate and "map" out the nerves that are causing you issues. Depending where the damage is, they can look at shots and things like radio frequency lesioning. You are limited on shots - they are steroids and cause long term issues to the surrounding tissue. Gabapentin - Elavil and a few other drugs can help. The neuro, try to go to a teaching hospital. You need a top notch one, the test needs to be performed by someone who really is good cause it can affect the outcome of the test. After the baseline, consulting & a few round of shots, you can look into spinal cord stimulators. Do your own research. I had the trial of one and chose against it, but they have helped many people. 

He can also benefit from a psychiatrist. Hear me out. I am not calling him nuts. Fighting pain 24x7 for the rest of your life takes something out of you, it does. Having someone help you to get a good "head game" to help fight the battle does help. I wish your husband well. I wish you well too. This will be a challenge to the family. Please understand when your husband lashes out. Being in constant pain makes people irritable and diminishes their coping skills, ask me how I know. 

I do not want to be the bearer of bad news, just a realist. Nerve pain from spinal cord injury rarely goes away. You learn to adapt and overcome, but it will be a companion with your husband forever. Please see a good neuro and from there a good pain doctor and then a shrink. 
I wish him reduced pain days ahead

Update: I read further in the thread and realized that this is still very "acute". It will take a while for the trauma of the injury and subsequent surgery to calm down. I still stand by the comments, but, I would wait until post surgery  and recovery before perusing the EMG / NCV. Let the body recover first, to see what extent you still have the nerve pain. I would also say that PT will be critical. Push thru the pain and make sure he "flosses" the nerves in his spine so they do not attach to the scar tissue from surgery.My husband got shot and has damage to his l1l2 vertebra and is having neuropathic pain. Does anyone have advice on long term nerve pain care?,The only suggestion I have is to consult a doctor about Gabapentin. I had severe nerve pain in the beginning of my injury (now 8/9months post) and Gabapentin helped me out tremendously but I no longer take it as I’ve weened off the med. Long term nerve pain may come and go and that really depends on the extent of the injury. Right now your husband is in spinal shock and once the swelling goes down then the nerve pain may subside.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I became quadriplegic during a blackout on LSD. Here’s what happened, and the start of the craziest story ever, one that goes back billions of years... Nice to meet you! ✨💞🐇,Amazing that our health care system allows us to wallow in a mental health crisis without intervention. I hope that changes for you soon. That nursing facility should take action, but I’m guessing they only take action if you allow them to...please let them help 🙏,I have started to explain why this isn’t a mental health problem, and will more in the future. I totally understand wanting to disregard Me, but you only will if you don’t do your research and ask questions as needed accordingly. I’m telling a story as old as time, one word at a time.I became quadriplegic during a blackout on LSD. Here’s what happened, and the start of the craziest story ever, one that goes back billions of years... Nice to meet you! ✨💞🐇,WhoaPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Bladder issues - should I be concerned?,Sounds like neurogenic bladder. You need to find a doctor who is in practice and will Listen to your concerns. Understand your body will change overtime and unfortunately you've had a sci which means a lot can change which will need to be seen by a doctor to ensure your health doesn't deteriorate. 

If you were able to void on your own before and now you're having troubles then this is of concern. What country are you in? I would find a urologist with knowledge in sci and have them do a urinalysis and a cystoscopy. 

I'm a decade out as well and if I were you, I would go see a doctor.,Yeah, I am still able to void but a very weak stream and it feels like I have not emptied. Every night I would wake multiple times with the sensation that I needed to go. That has been raised with my DR's for a couple of years but now it's different. Sensation is affected I cannot tell if I am going at times. I also had really bad urgency as well as other "accidents" can occur that. I am in my late 50's so I know people will bring up prostate. Its been check physically and blood test and it fine. 

Neurogenic bladder totally matches, thanks, digging deeper. I have had a history of kidney stones, so I have chocked up a lot of this to those procedures, but it's different now. 

Thanks for taking the time to reply, appreciated.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
4 weeks post surgery and my dad can wiggle his toes a little bit!! Baby steps. 👣,All good news. Literally baby steps.4 weeks post surgery and my dad can wiggle his toes a little bit!! Baby steps. 👣,That’s a great sign!!4 weeks post surgery and my dad can wiggle his toes a little bit!! Baby steps. 👣,What kinda surgery?,July 25, he suddenly lost all feeling below his chest due to compression in the spinal column from arthritis, stenosis, bone spurs. The surgeon went in through the throat to chisel out bone growths and put in a plate to hold the column open. Two days after they went in the back and chiseled out more growth in the C1-C7 vertebrae. We think he has a bad bruise slightly lower in the spinal cord that will heal with time and maybe give him more movement. For a guy that had no feeling or function 3 weeks ago, a little toe wiggle is giving us a little hope.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Why am I now starting to have bladder accidents?,UTI is most likely. Also the longer you have a neurogenic bladder the more likely you will need oxybutin to decrease your bladder pressure,This, after my accident I didn't have any bladder issues for months but after a while i got a series of really bad utis and now I have to do botox and oxybutanin to maintain continence.Why am I now starting to have bladder accidents?,Sounds like a UTI or other infection. Try cathing more frequently - 6 hours is a pretty long time. My urologist recommended every 3-4, so you could try every 4 hours for a time to see if that helps (alongside getting checked for an infection).Why am I now starting to have bladder accidents?,Sounds like it’s a UTI  if you’re a woman it could also be a yeast infection or bacterial infection.Why am I now starting to have bladder accidents?,I'm in exact same situation.  Recently my capacity went down from 400-500ml to 300ml. I also get positional leaking wheneverI vent down even with half empty bladder. So annoying. C6/C7 about 2.5 years post injury. Im thinking it's time to see a urologist.Why am I now starting to have bladder accidents?,>I usually cath every six hours but lately I’ve been pushing it.   

This is could 100% be your problem (assuming no UTI).Why am I now starting to have bladder accidents?,I’m realizing salt (sodium) has this effect on me. Makes for a miserable day. 6hrs is a long time...Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Religion + Disability,Hey there!

I am actually a quadriplegic and a pastor. So I am a Christian, but I believe religion is a personal thing, and I think you need to take time and seek these things out for yourself regardless of what your parents think. Unfortunately religion, like politics can be super divisive, but it shouldn’t be, we should all be able to have differing viewpoints and still respect and care for each other (I know it’s easier said than done though!). I know where you are coming from tho, I’ve had people tell me in a church once that my injury was a result of a generational curse. Nonsense, but people are entitled to their opinions even if they are stupid opinions. lMy advice is just show respect to your parents and their differing views and continue to seek truth!,thanks, this is a good solutionReligion + Disability,I grew up in a conservative islamic family. I still believe in god as a higher power, I believe in an after-life, and I recognize the value and role of religion in society. However, I prefer to interpret it in my own way. I smoke cannabis for medical reasons (pain) and my dad really didn't like that. I didn't see him for 5 years at one point. We got through it, though! through the power of love and acceptance and..... just kidding, we only got through it by pretending it never happened and never speaking of it again. Still, that's progress I tells ya. So yah, religion and disability don't always fit together so easily.Religion + Disability,I'm Muslim, T4 for a year. Personally Islam really helped me get through this. Most likely because of the basic philosophy in Islam, which is that this life is considered a very quick test with several obstacles. And if you pass, you get to experience the afterlife where your house will be the size of planets, you get anything you want, and you'll live  for trillions of years without dying, no matter how happy we think we'll be in the after life, it won't be close. 

 If you face a large obstacle like a disability, you're reward will be massively greater. And if we knew how much the reward for being patient for having something like a disability, we'd want to go through this forever to get as much reward as possible. 

I don't know if this helps at all, I really hope you find what works for you. Feel free to contact me if you need any info or support.Religion + Disability,My mother is a wiccan, she believes a lot of things about my disability that I disagree with - and I haven't found any particular way to solve it as of yet. Atm, I just treat her with respect and understand that we disagree.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Four years with an L4 fracture,You don't have a spinal cord injury, you have a spine injury. Big difference.,Yea thats huge difference,He wouldnt be able to walkFour years with an L4 fracture,I had fractures in L5 and C5Four years with an L4 fracture,But fractures heal what doesnt really heal is herniation that comes after it.. try massages and therapy swimming but no running and lifting! Can aggravate really bad and u will need surgery, best of luck,It’s been 4 years I don’t think the fracture will ever heal correctlyFour years with an L4 fracture,Also i would add that some chiropracters can worsen your pain. 
If u had compression fracture it means u fell on your butt right? And u could stand up and continue playing?Four years with an L4 fracture,Wait just read your message again so u had MRI done? Did it say u have herniation in L5? If yes then that's what causing your pain.  If a disc herniates and leaks some of its inner material, though, the disc can aggravate nerve, pinching it and triggering back pain and possibly pain and nerve symptoms down the leg.,The spinal fracture I have never healed correctly and is rubbing against my sciatic nerve sending pain into my legs. I’m not sure what is causing my back pain but it definitely has something to do with inflammation and maybe even some disc issues. I don’t know if I have a herniated discPosted Question, Comment, Reply
5 years out from injury: What have I learned?,The most important thing I learned is to just live your life. Go volunteer, go look for a job, go play in the park, just LIVE and you will be personally fulfilled AND, as a bonus, you will attract people who will share your vibe and want to share your space. The best friends and experiences I've ever had were by meeting people randomly. Also, That's how I met my current girlfriend, I was just doing my job and participating at a convention and then I saw her and put some of my arabian-stallion magic on her. I also have 2 exes I met randomly; at a charity kitchen and at school. So, yah, live your life.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
RT300 or other electrical stimulation bike for C5,Hello. First of all, being a year out from such a massive life change is indescribable to someone who hasn’t lived it. I’m sorry you and yours have been enduring this. 

I have an RT300 at home, but only by the extreme luck of there having been one donated to a local nonprofit that helps low income people with disabilities obtain necessary medical equipment. Furthermore, the company (Restorative Technologies) wanted $3k to just activate it for me after I received it as a donation. No matter how many times I explained that $3k is more than I live on in 3 months, they didn’t care. So, with the help of my therapists I worked out how to literally hack into the bike to use it. Because RT refused to be helpful. 

Long story shorter - RT is currently top of the line, but there are competitors now, thankfully. Check out https://myolyn.com - same concept, half the price. 

Also, if you have private insurance, talk to your husband’s therapists/doctors about having a “letter of medical necessity” written. Private insurers do sometimes cover some or all of these devices.,Yea the MyoCycle is just as good, if not better, and half the cost.,Thank you let me know MyoCycle. It sounds a good choice.  I see it has two types: MyoCycle and MyoCycle Pro. What are the major difference? For home usage, is MyoCycle good enough?  For C5 and sitting in a power chair, is it applicable to use MyoCycle?RT300 or other electrical stimulation bike for C5,If he has active movement, you can look into a MotoMed. This does not have electrodes to provide muscle stimulation, but will automatically switch into passive movement if the user isn’t generating enough force for active movement. It’s will give you % about how much your left vs right is doing and can be used either as a leg bike or arm bike. It’s a good exercise device, albeit different than the RT300.,Thank you for telling MotoMed.  It is good to know this product for future reference.  He can move his legs little bit, but has no ability to move pedal yet.RT300 or other electrical stimulation bike for C5,I've had a similar model for 10 or so years. Worked great until recently when the arm pedal colum snapped. Asked for a repair but they seemed unwilling to fix an older model. Can't remember the price but I think it was pretty steep so make sure he's willing to use it. And one more tip if he uses it alot make sure to keep an eye on pressure areas after use.....,>pedal colum snapped

  

Thanks for the info and tip. I will pay attention on his pressure areas if we got one at home.RT300 or other electrical stimulation bike for C5,I like the Quell Unit.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
peeing after sci,It sounds like you're pretty similar to me. I'm 4 years out and can walk unassisted and can feel when I need to pee, but I never got the ability to just "open up the valve" like before the injury. However, I can pee if I'm pushing like I'm taking a dump. It does cause more strain which leads to hemorrhoids and I'm also pooping when I'm doing this, so no urinals for me anymore. 

I can mostly empty my bladder doing this but I still cath in the morning and at night to make sure I'm getting a full empty to avoid a UTI. But throughout the day I'm able to get by without it.,Can you press your bladder with your hands instead of straining? Hemorrhoids are no good!,Press on your bladder rather than straining!peeing after sci,FWIW: I believe it was inside of 3 months post injury where I was able to both feel the sensation of needing to pee, and actually being able to pee without a cath. I was pumped full of flomax and that seemed to do the trick. Now, nearly 5 years post injury I still pee unassisted.,did you already had some movement in your bladder when you took flomax? because my doctor said that i need to have some movement in my bladder to improve it with meds. before it wouldn't make sense.peeing after sci,I’m a similar injury and I can only get out between 50-200 ml but it’s a strain so I also cath to clear the bladder. I’m not walking on my own yet (3.5 years) but can use a walker. Like you I’m glad for my progress on sometimes miss the old days. Good luck.,thanks! wish you good luck too and keep going!peeing after sci,I’m C-7 Walking Quad, I walk unassisted but still deal with the issues that come along with SCI, like bladder. I feel the normal sensation of having to go, and if I have to piss like a Race Horse I can go on my own but still need to cath to fully empty. 

I know for me a doc told me while I may see some improvement on being able to hold the urge and not leak, but the percentage being able to go like I did prior is small, 9 years later I don’t even think about it, I pretty much muscle memory  to me at this point.

Also to when you say you miss what you don’t have sometimes, I’ve been there and for me it didn’t do much good mentally. I’ll just say look at what you don’t have as “it is what it is” and focus on improving what you do.,that's true. most of the days i can do it pretty well, just some days, especially when i'm in the city, every place remembers me about something i did there before my accident. but the feeling doesn't stay for long, i always find motivation too and am grateful for what i have and can also enjoy the things i do.peeing after sci,What is your current bladder capacity?,i feel the need to cath between 350-500 ml, i always thought that my bladder capacity is smaller than when i walked, but the urologist told me 2 days go that it's still normal like my by bladder before. i never lost water, even when i had 1l in my bladder it stayed shut. hope this helps youPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Two years ago today I broke my neck leaving me a C6 quadriplegic. Since then, I’m back on my feet, opened my own restaurant, and try to live the best life to my ability. My wife made this video showing year two post accident. Hope this inspires someone to never give up!,Note from my wife:

I decided to go on a run that Sunday. We had just gotten new shoes for me the day before. I went with the doggies and remember stopping and taking a picture of the “Anita street” sign because it reminded me of a dear friend in New York so it made me smile. It was sunny, not too hot or cold...just “the perfect day.” I had taken your keys which annoyed you so much because you needed them to unlock the bike and go on your daily ride. You rode the bike, came home and we packed the car for our usual weekend beach day. “Do we get food for the dogs now or after?” “Just got a text from Rachel to go to her pool. Should we go there instead?” “We need to go grocery shopping for the week. We will do that after the beach but we need to make sure we get there by 4! The store closes then on Sundays” “can you take a pic of me?“ “Fine, I’ll go in the water with you this time” All those decisions we made on Stupid Sunday are saved in my “won’t be able to forget file.” That’s often what one remembers during what you deem as a pivotal moment in your life. In that split second neither of us will forget...your life, my life, our bond and our already immense love for one another  changed and grew. I remember in the midst of all the chaos telling myself “oh wow.. I really love him. I knew this but the universe just confirmed it with this invisible pull towards saving him at all costs. Now and always. I can’t lose him.”

Year 2 brought us less tears, more walking, more cooking, less hospital visits, a lot of hard work, driving, independence, more laying out, solo farmer market trips, and... a. new. restaurant!! You can do it all, mon cherie. I hope and pray to the stars that all our dreams in this life come true. Nothing makes me happier than your kind and sweet smile.Two years ago today I broke my neck leaving me a C6 quadriplegic. Since then, I’m back on my feet, opened my own restaurant, and try to live the best life to my ability. My wife made this video showing year two post accident. Hope this inspires someone to never give up!,Man, I remember your first video, must've watched it 10 times! Just hit the 1-year mark for my own injury and can somewhat walk again! Gotta make my video now 😁,Would love to see it!Two years ago today I broke my neck leaving me a C6 quadriplegic. Since then, I’m back on my feet, opened my own restaurant, and try to live the best life to my ability. My wife made this video showing year two post accident. Hope this inspires someone to never give up!,Thank you for this.Two years ago today I broke my neck leaving me a C6 quadriplegic. Since then, I’m back on my feet, opened my own restaurant, and try to live the best life to my ability. My wife made this video showing year two post accident. Hope this inspires someone to never give up!,Really appreciate this!Two years ago today I broke my neck leaving me a C6 quadriplegic. Since then, I’m back on my feet, opened my own restaurant, and try to live the best life to my ability. My wife made this video showing year two post accident. Hope this inspires someone to never give up!,Thx for the inspirationTwo years ago today I broke my neck leaving me a C6 quadriplegic. Since then, I’m back on my feet, opened my own restaurant, and try to live the best life to my ability. My wife made this video showing year two post accident. Hope this inspires someone to never give up!,This is awesome! So inspirational.

&#x200B;

I'm 5 days away from my 5 year injury date. Posts like this are what really make me smile.,Thanks!Two years ago today I broke my neck leaving me a C6 quadriplegic. Since then, I’m back on my feet, opened my own restaurant, and try to live the best life to my ability. My wife made this video showing year two post accident. Hope this inspires someone to never give up!,Love seeing this! C7 Walking Quad, took me 9 years but it was worth the wait!,Amazing!Two years ago today I broke my neck leaving me a C6 quadriplegic. Since then, I’m back on my feet, opened my own restaurant, and try to live the best life to my ability. My wife made this video showing year two post accident. Hope this inspires someone to never give up!,❤️Two years ago today I broke my neck leaving me a C6 quadriplegic. Since then, I’m back on my feet, opened my own restaurant, and try to live the best life to my ability. My wife made this video showing year two post accident. Hope this inspires someone to never give up!,Keep it up!!! I’m seven years post and most people can’t even tell I was ever hurt!!! You ARE an inspiration!!!,That’s amazing! It for sure looks better than it feels, every step I take is terrifying, but trying my best to make it work💪Two years ago today I broke my neck leaving me a C6 quadriplegic. Since then, I’m back on my feet, opened my own restaurant, and try to live the best life to my ability. My wife made this video showing year two post accident. Hope this inspires someone to never give up!,So glad you’re doing well!Two years ago today I broke my neck leaving me a C6 quadriplegic. Since then, I’m back on my feet, opened my own restaurant, and try to live the best life to my ability. My wife made this video showing year two post accident. Hope this inspires someone to never give up!,C4/5 Walking Incomplete Quad, 13 years post. Loved the vid! Life and love doesn't stop no matter where you are on your journey or recovery. 

I'm currently pursuing my dream of living out of a suitcase for 2 years and my post injury journey started with my restaurant 13 years ago. You've just brought back so many good memories. I hate being in front of the camera but you've inspired me to give it a shot at the very least. Keep living hard and I'm looking forward to future vids!,Good luck!Two years ago today I broke my neck leaving me a C6 quadriplegic. Since then, I’m back on my feet, opened my own restaurant, and try to live the best life to my ability. My wife made this video showing year two post accident. Hope this inspires someone to never give up!,💪🏽💪🏽Two years ago today I broke my neck leaving me a C6 quadriplegic. Since then, I’m back on my feet, opened my own restaurant, and try to live the best life to my ability. My wife made this video showing year two post accident. Hope this inspires someone to never give up!,so good to see this ! i have a dog as well, and can't walk good enough at the moment to walk with him, so this inspires me a lot and i will keep going until i can walk as well hopefully like you with your dog. soon 9 months past injury (L1-T12 incomplete) can walk with crutches small distances, so i will keep it up!,Good luck, would love to read your progress!Two years ago today I broke my neck leaving me a C6 quadriplegic. Since then, I’m back on my feet, opened my own restaurant, and try to live the best life to my ability. My wife made this video showing year two post accident. Hope this inspires someone to never give up!,Congratulations on your successful recovery!

My son has a complete T12 SCI from a fall. Was your SCI complete or incomplete? Looking for some hope and encouragement that walking is possible after a complete SCI.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Found this newer video about Sex after SCI!,Awesome thanks for the infoFound this newer video about Sex after SCI!,ThanksFound this newer video about Sex after SCI!,Great holistic approach.Found this newer video about Sex after SCI!,this was a great video. I wish it was presented better, though, with succicnt info and graphics. I'd like to see this kind of thing that's easily digestable for people with SCI's and EVERYONE ELSE, too. That's how we educate the public. 

as for criticism; there was a lot of filler in that video.... why talk about religion and culture and other shit when it comes to sex after SCI? Sure, all that is important, but I imagine when someone is post-SCI and curious how to have sex again, they're not concerned about learning about the cultural norms first lol. I also feel personally attacked that she said we ought to refrain from illicit substances. What if I'm tryna get laid while in a k-hole?!,I think the only reason she said that is it can have an affect on your ability to achieve orgasm/ejaculation. She talks about meds doing that as well. 

People’s religion can have a profound impact on how comfortable they are with sex to start with. Like she’s telling you to masturbate but some people’s religion tells them that’s wrong.  Which is fucking stupid IMO! Maybe that’s why I’m a freak lol 

But yeah I’ve yet to see the perfect video regarding SCI. But most I’ve seen have been more towards the mindfulness side. And you don’t have to orgasm to enjoy sex etc.... at least she’s trying to help you find a way to do that.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
need advice on dealing with 6ft. rule,I’m t-5,6. At our level,  lung capacity is significantly compromised. Covid 19
targets lung function. I highly recommend you find a way to keep socially isolating and distancing unless you want to risk potentially a severe adverse reaction to the virus and possible death.need advice on dealing with 6ft. rule,I'm early 30s T6 para. I have my chair balanced so I can easily do a wheelie. I would be concerned though if I was tipping over just from interacting with people. That sounds stressful and unsafe.  My back comes up to just below my shoulder blades and I feel steady, but still dynamic when I want to be. 

Depending on what country you are in (not USA), I could see letting people in a bit closer outdoors with masks on, but honestly its best to follow protocols for safety until a vaccine comes out. When I get a cold, I'm not very good at coughing, so I worry about getting COVID, when many other people my age are not.,PT here. I was gonna say your chair sounds a little too tippy. Where the wheel meets the chair might be a little too far forward. Could be worth looking into getting an adjustment.need advice on dealing with 6ft. rule,Hey, T6/T7 33 y/o here.

Balance has always been tough so I like the higher backed chairs. I rent from my mom so I'm not always alone but have hated being cloistered away from people.

Do people around you not wear masks?need advice on dealing with 6ft. rule,Hi there. OT here. You mentioned you work. Do you talk or hang out with any of your coworkers? Also, if you want to just talk just to chat with somome, feel free to message me.need advice on dealing with 6ft. rule,35y  old M T5 complete para.  Covid Sucks! I feel ya balance wise. But next time you get a new  wheelchair talk to them about ergo seating  and other options to maybe help with some of that.  

But as a upper thoracic para we gotta be careful. I honestly was a social butterfly before this going to bars concerts etc.... and  now I pretty much go to the grocery store and that’s it till this Covid shit gets better. I feel ya tho it’s killing me too!  But there are plenty of people like @gets_bored_easily out there that offer to talk.  There are plenty of places like this too. I recommend checking this out https://www.carecure.net has all kinds of forums to browse and talk.  And if your single create a tinder account or something. you would be surprised
How many people will reach out on stuff such as that.  

Ineed advice on dealing with 6ft. rule,Just noticed like 4 of us really close in age with about the same injury we should start a group chat lol,I noticed the same , I new I wasn't the only one like this . I would like to talk to you guys , not loose contact------ I live in the US where are ya'll at ?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
SCI due to arthritis, stenosis, bone spurs - any help?,I’m not a doctor, but I have been living with a SCI for the past 14 years. My injury T12 incomplete. 
All I can tell you is everyone is different and heals differently. Even from the same exact injury and same exact level etc, it can effect people completely different.

It takes a long time to know what ability you will have afterwards, up to a couple years even.
Is it a good sign he is starting to feel things below his level of injury? It could be. But it also could just be that limited feeling he felt at that point. 

Obviously it’s important (especially right after injury) to work on trying to strengthen and get things as good as possible, like his grip. It sounds like he has an incomplete injury, do you know what he has? Complete meaning total severing of the spinal cord, and incomplete meaning the cord is intact but damaged to whatever degree. 

Incomplete injuries can sometimes heal to the point of some messages still reaching below the level of injury like what you mentioned about slight feeling in his legs.

I wish I could tell you more, like I said I’m only telling you what I know from my own personal experience. I can also tell you that I live a fell life, despite being in a wheelchair. I’m fully independent and happy, which with hard work is totally a possible outcome for your father. Who knows how much he will heal. Time will tell. Good luck to your father and to you. He’s a lucky man to have such a good support system and family around him.,Thanks for your comment. We haven’t actually been told if the injury is complete vs. incomplete. When the doctors did an exam/test in his rectum, they said they could feel my dad bearing down. The fact that he also has some feelings of touch in his legs makes me believe it’s an incomplete injury? He had no sensation to touch 2 weeks ago, but then he started feeling a little bit. I don’t think the spinal cord was severed. More compressed, pinched and potentially bruised. My mom or I haven’t seen any MRIs or scans personally. 

Your last comment is really hopeful to me. It doesn’t pain me to think about him being in a wheelchair in the future. I am just more concerned about him accepting the situation and being happy and finding joy. It will probably take some time but, I just can’t wait to see him laughing and smiling like he once did.SCI due to arthritis, stenosis, bone spurs - any help?,It is impossible to predict the course of recovery for anyone - all injuries, bodies, healing processes, etc are different and so really this will all be anecdotal.  

And here’s the anecdote I know:  I was in rehab with an older gentleman who stepped out of his truck, twisted his ankle, fell and lost all sensation below his collarbone.  He had cervical and thoracic incomplete injuries caused by stenosis and bone spurs.  When I left rehab he was working on learning to feed himself - he had arm movement but no finger grip.  Two years later, we were at the outpatient center at the same time.  While he never regained fine motor in his hands and his (previously dominant) right arm was much weaker, he was walking and had what he described as “near enough normal” bowel and bladder function.  He was living independently and working for his previous employer.  

I don’t know where you are or what rehab he is in, but I can tell you that the expertise and intensity of care you receive in a good vs adequate acute rehab makes a pretty substantial difference in long term outcomes.,Thanks for your reply. Stories like this give me hope, but as you mentioned, I fully know each situation is extremely unique. And like the gentleman you mentioned, my dad’s usually dominate right hand is not doing as well as his left. Go figure. 

He is at a Spinal Cord Injury rehab part of the hospital in Milwaukee. Shirley Ryan in Chicago is within 90 minutes of us, and I wanted to request additional consultations of therapy there depending on how things continue to progress.SCI due to arthritis, stenosis, bone spurs - any help?,This sounds a lot like what I went through although I'm about 15 years younger. Instead of being in my neck, my issues were in my lower back and they came on over time. I'd push through most days until one day I couldn't. It hurt so bad I was in tears and I could barely walk. I was diagnosed with congenital spinal stenosis and arthritis that was causing a disc to press on my spinal cord. 

I had surgery to clean up the calcium buildup and I ended up with nerve damage. Either from waiting so long or from the procedure. I was paralyzed from the waist down. It took a good couple months before I got any movement back and nearly six before I could walk again. My legs are still numb and I have issues with sensations. I've had all sorts of crazy experiences. Touch one leg and feel it in the other. Muscle twitches. Most of this has sorted itself out luckily. Now it's weakness and numbness. That first surgery was seven years ago and they told me the window for nerves repairing themselves is about two years. 

I've learned that I'm an exception and not the rule, by the way. I just underwent my second surgery this past June. Kyphosis. My spine above where I had my original surgery started collapsing in on itself. Luckily this time things went much smoother. I had a much better doctor too. The best advice I can pass along is to be patient and do as much as they ask in rehab, but don't be afraid to let them know if something hurts. Even when I couldn't do what was asked of me I tried. As long as it didn't hurt I'd go until my therapist told me to stop. Even if that meant just laying on the table trying to move my legs when they wouldn't. 

Lastly, I've learned that if I can get through all this anyone can. I tell people I needed a lesson on humility and patients. Don't rush things and they'll without. Maybe not the way you'd like them to, but life finds a way.,Thanks for sharing your story. I was warned against seeking stories like this that would give me false hope. I do understand that every SCI is unique and no two individuals heal the same. It’s amazing that you add able to walk again!

We are keep him at therapy for longer than suggested, because he is making good progress. Insurance will cover 60 days, but they basically said he should be home after 3 weeks. We are going to keep pushing. 

Your last paragraph stuck with me. I do truly believe that this challenge was given to my dad and our family for a reason. We don’t know that reason right now, but all we can do is trust the process and stay hopeful.SCI due to arthritis, stenosis, bone spurs - any help?,Both Craig and Shepherd hospitals have significant online resources in terms of information, handouts, etc.  The nurse advice line at Craig can be very helpful.  

It often takes a highly variable period of time based on the person to figure out if an injury is complete or not - you’ll hear people talk about motor complete sensory incomplete, or different levels on different sides - and many people (including me) make gains and experience changes for much longer than the six months window they give you in acute rehab.  

Get as much acute rehab time for him as you can. 

It’s probably worth asking an OT or PT about starting estim now to prevent disuse atrophy.  It’s much easier to restart using muscle that hasn’t wasted completely away.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Do you label yourself “Disabled”,I am factually physically disabled. I don’t like the label. Nor do I like “handicapped” or “person with a disability”. When people ask me what they should call me I say “I prefer ‘handsome’!”😎,My man! 👊🏿Do you label yourself “Disabled”,To me, disabled and personal with a disability are synonyms. I consider myself disabled,Gotcha! And why?Do you label yourself “Disabled”,Calling myself disabled doesn’t bother me the slightest. To me it’s like just another label or description like race or religion.,Gotcha!Do you label yourself “Disabled”,I consider myself disabled, due mostly to [the social model of disablity](https://www.scope.org.uk/about-us/social-model-of-disability/) which posits I'm a person with an impairment who is then \*disabled\* by society (expectations, archetypes, physical barriers etc) To quote some disability studies scholar I can't remember(Simi Linton?), to be disabled is an active process.

I wouldn't say I 'label myself' as disabled, its more that no matter what I call myself society will still see me as different, othered etc. so all the negative aspects of the word 'disabled' apply regardless. However, using the word 'disabled' to bring attention to actual barriers - like stairs or lack of ramps - is useful to me as it reminds that me and my impairment aren't the issue, the factors that make me disabled are the structures around me.

I don't carry my disability (person with a disability) and I'm not inherently incapable (handicapped) - I'm a disabled person, disabled in the same way that I would be a wet person due to dealing with the effect of rain i.e. due to the barriers put in place by society.

The social model isn't all that, it doesn't explain disabling symptoms of impairment like chronic pain, but my current understanding has led me to describe myself as a disabled person.,Thank you for your view!

I guess I’m speaking more for the psychological aspect of the term, and how it could hinder ones outlook on life, because labeling your self as such could mentally make you view your self in the same negative light society labels the term.

To me, being viewed as “Disabled” create a sense of being less than. I’m a person first, who happens to suffer from a disability. So I view myself as a “person with a disability”

For example when I started being involved in adaptive sports, I would constantly hear “ How can you play this, or that? Aren’t you disabled” and while I was never offended, think about the discouraging mental toll it can have on a person who will possibly view themselves in the same light society does because of the misinformed use of the term.Do you label yourself “Disabled”,I am whatever you say I am. Disabled would be one of them. Husband, father, son, brother, friend, boss, coworker, asshole, artist, punk, human amongst others. Depends on the day and person. I’m cool with any of them.,Gotcha!Do you label yourself “Disabled”,Yes. I am disabled, I'd love to be healthy, but I'm not. I have zero problems being called one, it's a word that describes my condition and my daily struggles.,I can completely understand!Do you label yourself “Disabled”,I use disabled and I use it as an act of resistance. The dream is for “disabled” to be a neutral term. You mentioned in another comment that you don’t like disabled because it makes you feel “less than”. I understand that, but I’d put this back on you: why do you feel that way? Because society has told you that disabled = less than. 

I call myself disabled because people are desperate to tell me that I have “overcome” my disability with my accomplishments post-Injury. That’s a crock. Half my body doesn’t work. I still use a wheelchair. I can be young, healthy, successful, contributing and STILL be disabled. 

Have a google of “internalized ableism” and look up #whenIcallmyselfdisabled on Instagram. You may find it interesting.,When I said “less than” I was speaking of my point of view on the term. Not how I personally feel about myself. The confidence i have in myself is why I have the current  perspective of the term “disabled”. Im no different post injury than “me” pre injury, so why label myself with that term. Yes physically I’m disabled, but the label aspect of the term plays a important role mentally.

I can only speak for myself, and personal experiences that plays into my way of thinkingDo you label yourself “Disabled”,I would hope that if a friend/relative/colleague was asked to describe me, “disabled” wasn’t among the first 10 terms. 

I certainly don’t label myself as disabled. If I really had to describe it, I say, “I use a wheelchair.”,To me the psychological part of being labeled as “disabled” creates more harm than good.Do you label yourself “Disabled”,The last thing I care about is "labeling",Understandable!

This is to create conversation on the termDo you label yourself “Disabled”,Definitely consider myself disabled, because I am no longer able to do 80% of the things that I use to do. The things that I would say defined me.,Would you be able do 80% of the things you used to do adaptive?Do you label yourself “Disabled”,I call myself a cripp.Do you label yourself “Disabled”,Webster’s dictionary says:

Disabled = put out of action
Handicap = a circumstance making 
progress difficult 

Who exactly decided that “handicap” was politically incorrect and “disabled” was ok?
I have never understood that.,I took a Developmental Disability Course while in college for Human Services and it takes a deep dive on how persons with disabilities where and are viewed and it’s definitely a eye opener to how negatively viewed. 

Look at the simple fact that ADA had to be created just so we can get a tiny bit of equality.,I sometimes use handicapped when disabled might lead to confusion, like when talking about my van. I dont want people to think there's something wrong with my van.  

I've heard the origin of the word handicapped comes from beggars though, like cap in hand asking for change. Some bristle at that association.Do you label yourself “Disabled”,23 years disabled

yes, I am disabledDo you label yourself “Disabled”,13 years post, unassisted walking C4/5 Incomplete Quad. I'm perfectly fine wth the term. Being labeled or calling myself disabled is just an identifier but not an identity. Because I'm upright, I have to often explain that I'm disabled to get assistance but I've never looked at it as a negative connotation.,You don’t think your identity is what you define yourself as?Do you label yourself “Disabled”,T2-T3 I'm a  gimp.Do you label yourself “Disabled”,I consider my self a care bear in a cool chair!Do you label yourself “Disabled”,I don’t use disabled because it could be many things. On my tinder profile and other social media I’ll say I’m in/use a wheelchair. Because I feel really that’s my only obstacle.  But I feel that some of society puts a negative tone on “disabled” in many aspects.Do you label yourself “Disabled”,I do and don’t. I’m still me internally. I just am slightly different now physically. Literally I’m disabled but I don’t try to wear that label on myself because my spirit is still “me”. If that makes sense? One observation I’ve noticed is people often conflate being disabled with being ill. I’d like to say (tooting my own horn) that I’m a healthy para (7 months post) and don’t want people to view my as sick/ill because I use a chair now.Do you label yourself “Disabled”,I do come under the definition, but I never use the word. Always say wheelchair user. It's far more clear that way.,Yes by definition, we all physically are. Mentally the term can be harmful in how one views themselves.Do you label yourself “Disabled”,I am disabled, and I was born that way. The nature and degree of my physical impairment won't change if I call it by another name. If I would insist on being called something else, that would 100% further alienate people from me who can't relate to my situation by giving them further instructions how to conduct themselves around me. I'm all for mitigating existing barriers, not erecting new ones...,I understand your perspective! Thanks for sharing. 

In my opinion how we identify ourselves can be different than how we physically are by definition.

Two things can be true.

My disability doesn’t create barriers in life, it’s a moment in my life that changed me physically but I’m still who I am pre and post.

The moment in life where I did identify as “disabled” it sub consciously created barriers. 

It wasn’t until I looked deeper into the psychological aspect of the term and my own self-acceptance and awareness of myself, that I changed my perspective on the term when it comes to my identity.

I can only speak for myself and my own perspective and how I came to my own way of thinkingDo you label yourself “Disabled”,I never use the term disabled to describe myself. I just say I’m a wheelchair user or I have a spinal cord injury. The D word just makes me feel quite uncomfy tbh, and I certainly do not wear it as a badge of honour like some seem to. 
If I had to choose though I’d take it over the H word any day!Do you label yourself “Disabled”,Initially I did not as I was still able to work. Over time, scar tissue in my spinal cord filled with fluid and formed a type of cyst called a syrinx. It is painful AF and causes additional limitations. I had to stop working when I had to start using morphine 24/7. I was a pharmacist and voluntarily gave up my license at that point. Coming to terms with being disabled was hard and took a long time but I'm now comfortable with that. I do still have episodes where I'm not happy with not being able to contribute to society. Especially recently with the Covid-19 pandemic as I can't be at a hospital helping out.,Do you think you coming to terms with your injury is the same as accepting yourself as you are?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
DnD making some wheeled minis. These are great!,That Barbarian Dwarf is definitely getting a new home. Appreciate the link ♿️,Yay!  I'm glad to hear, and happy you enjoyed them as much as I did.

Side note, your flair made me laugh. I feel ya. Complete af here too.DnD making some wheeled minis. These are great!,These are great.  I ordered them and the detail is fantastic.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
How the hell do people afford outpatient rehab?,There are lots of grants available that help cover the costs. Lots of us also start Go Fund Me campaigns, etc.  It's a lot of work but there's nothing else. The medical system is a complete failure for us.,That’s what we’re working on right now. He had a gofundme when he first got injured a year ago so he doesn’t want to go that route if he can avoid it. It blows my mind that this is so inaccessible.How the hell do people afford outpatient rehab?,My insurance covers 20/yr and last year I had over 90 visits.  Depending on your hospital network they can offer financial assistance. I was able to get an "under insured" discount which cut costs of PT in half. I also applied for financial assistance which cut that cost in half again. So I ended up being charge a little over $100 per visit instead of $450 per visit. Still a crap ton of money but I'm on a payment plan for it. I'm going to be paying it for years after I stop therapy but at least it's manageable. 

If your outpatient clinic has a social worker try talking to them. That's how I figured out the discounts I ended up with. I wish you and your brother the best of luck.,Thanks so much! I’m definitely going to have him look into this!How the hell do people afford outpatient rehab?,Hey there! Curious on the timeline of your brother’s injury. My dad had a SCI 3 weeks ago and will likely be home in 2 weeks. We live between Milwaukee and Chicago and Shirley Ryan looked really appealing for additional therapy down the road.,His injury was a year ago last week. He has already done inpatient in Schenectady a couple months after his accident and has been doing PT at home as much as he can since then! He got accepted to Shirley Ryan on Friday.How the hell do people afford outpatient rehab?,Take a look at Neuroworx in SLC.  They are excellent.  Also, a nonprofit founded by a fellow with an SCI and his PT.  They have a truly phenomenal group of therapists and are really excellent at working with insurance companies to get things taken care of.  They are very engaged in the adaptive sports community as well.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Any good exercises for stronger hips/ glutes?,Monster walks and laying clamshells.  Get a stretch bandAny good exercises for stronger hips/ glutes?,That depends so much on your degree of injury and possible range of motion. I can kneel on all fours so I can perform knee pushups and can use an ab wheel, the latter does train those two areas.Any good exercises for stronger hips/ glutes?,I'm using this website. Even though it has exercises for the knees, it also has things for  the glutes, as well as quads and hamstrings. I don't know what your level of injury is, but you may be able to do some depending on your level of  control.[strengthening exercises ](https://www.knee-pain-explained.com/knee-strengthening-exercises.html)Any good exercises for stronger hips/ glutes?,Bridges - be sure you’re tucking your pelvis in.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
How many of you use a wheelchair at home but walk while outside the house? What impact does this have on travel plans? And if you travel, how many assistive walking/rolling devices do you pack?,I do the opposite. Wheelchair for longer errands like grocery trips and other things where I anticipate I'll need to be standing, as well as full days out. If I don't know if everything will be wheelchair friendly, I bring my mobility assistance dog who helps me navigate that terrain. Crutches at home, for short errands, and for visiting friend's houses (I know I'll have a place to sit, I won't have to move around too much). When I fly I bring my chair, my crutches, and usually my dog (Sometimes he gets a vacation if it's international travel or if I'll be going places that aren't super compatible with handling him - even though he's allowed public access everywhere, sometimes the tradeoff isn't worth it). I break down my crutches and bring them with my carryon (My Sidestix can break down in the middle and fit in a backpack or duffel).How many of you use a wheelchair at home but walk while outside the house? What impact does this have on travel plans? And if you travel, how many assistive walking/rolling devices do you pack?,I also have the opposite situation.  I can use crutches and AFOs in the house for short periods of walking/standing but I use my manual chair for out in the wild.  I always travel with my chair but bring my foldable forearm crutches which fit nicely on the back of my chair.  If I travel for a sporting event, I also am pushing my sport chair as well...  I would say, travel with whatever you will feel comfortable using.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Botox Injections for Urinary Retention,I've had it twice now and it works very well for me,What exactly does it accomplish?Botox Injections for Urinary Retention,I’ve now had the procedure done twice. The first time it helped but not a whole lot. 

A week after my second procedure It worked very well. No leaks whatsoever. It’s been about 4 months since the second one and it is starting to wear off a bit but still working very well.

Right now I’m having them spaced out 6 months apart. The first time I got 100cc injection, second was 200cc. My urologist says the dose can go up to 300cc and be spaced out a lot shorter due how long it lasts in the individual. 

If you are someone who can cath themselves and have leaks I highly recommend it.,Fantastic answer, cheers!Botox Injections for Urinary Retention,I started using a newish drug that is working well for me. Myrbetriq, no leaks in 4 months.,Yeah, I've been taking that since my injury. That, along with bladder injections, works extremely well.,myrebetriq worked way better for me than ditropan, although i still prefer the botox, cheers for the info.Botox Injections for Urinary Retention,Botox is the best thing I’ve ever done. I get 200 units every 6 months. I used to struggle bad with not being able to go more than a few hours without cathing. Now I can go 12-18. Absolutely changed my life.,Up to 18 hours without cathing? I’m so confused...,bruh, i don't thnk you're supposed to go 12-18 hours without urinating. You either don't drink enough water or I don't know wtf else, what if you got too much botox and now your bladder likes to hold the pee and won't let it go? MY PRECIOUSBotox Injections for Urinary Retention,I've had it done twice now and it works very well for me. I didn't know there was such a thing as a "low dose".Botox Injections for Urinary Retention,Had it done two months ago for the first time. Started losing it’s potency last week. Going to get a bigger dose done around October.Botox Injections for Urinary Retention,A urologist can inject [Botox](https://skinworksmed.com/face/botox-cosmetic-treatments/) into your bladder to treat urge incontinence or overactive bladder. This helps the muscles relax, which will give you more time to get to the bathroom when you feel the need to urinate. The injections are done in the clinic, and most patients tolerate the injections wellPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Acute Rehab Experience,1. What were the questions going through your mind when finding out about your injury? ***Something like "Fuck fuck fuck fuck...So I'll never walk again? Maybe this is all a bad dream...Shit".*** 
2. What were the initial challenges (physical, emotional, functional, etc) going through rehab and what did your therapist do to help you stay motivated? Or what did you wish they could have done to better help you? ***Initial challenges included coming to grips with my injury (That lasted for the entire time I was in therapy. I was able to push it aside some days but I was a dick to some of my family and friends because of it), sitting upright, wiping my ass, dealing with my sex drive (28 y/o male), and finding relief from the nerve pain associated with being in a bed or chair all day.  Therapy staff was AWESOME! Super encouraging, gave me space when I needed space, talked to me like a person and not anything else. They laughed with me and cried with me. We would wheel down to the hospital coffee shop for coffee and to get some fresh air. Again, my therapy staff was awesome!***
3. For individuals with injuries above T6, what were your initial thoughts about AD and how could we better explain AD in the beginning of rehab? ***Don't believe I had any issues here***
4. What were resources that helped you? And what were resources of information that could have helped you sooner? ***The SCI support team at the hospital was great. Unfortunately, I was too mad at myself/in denial to malke the best use of them. Now, any time I am back at the hospital for a check up I make sure to stop up and say hi and offer to talk to any of the patients.*** 
5. What helped build better rapport with your therapist? ***My therapists all seemed to know how to push me and just how hard to push and when to let me relax a bit. They all talked to me like a person and not with all the big medical terms. They seemed less like a "therapist" and more like a friend that knew a lot of very specific shit relating to my current condition.***
6. What was the most important thing you learned from rehab? ***That you'll never improve if you don't believe in yourself and that every small step is one closer to the finish line.***
7. Other than your therapist, did you have a mentor? ***What did you learn from them? The nurses and other staff on the floor were the absolute best. I still keep in touch with a few of them to this day (nearly 5 years later).*** 

—— Other Q’s:

* How has COVID affected your daily routine?  ***I just wear a mask when meeting with customers at work.*** 
* Any advice for me as a student on communication and overall patient care? —— ***Don't be too rigid and up tight in your professionalism. You'll be dealing with people, many of who are coming to the realization that they'll never climb a mountain, or go skiing, or take their dog for a run again. I'm not saying to be unprofessional, but more so to be vulnerable and speak candidly. It can really make all the difference.*** 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

Good luck in your career and if you ever have any questions you feel I might be able to answer, please pm me.,Hi u/PabroPicasso,

Wow! Thank you so so much for your responses! I'm glad to hear your experience through your rehab has been positive and so supportive! I love the fact you offer help in seeing the patients whenever you're at the hospital. You're practically a mentor in that regard. 

Your quote, **"That you'll never improve if you don't believe in yourself and that every small step is one closer to the finish line,"** resonates to me. I'll keep your words in mind during times I am faced with an unknown or novel situations and during my reflections with my instructor. Thank you also for your advice as well about professionalism and opening up vulnerability and honesty with patients. :)

I'll definitely reach out to you when I have more questions!Acute Rehab Experience,I'll preface by clarifying that I don't have an SCI. I do, though, have experience of being, along with my OH, the sounding-board and advocate for my adolescent daughter who is a complete T9 (injured at 10yo, now nearly 14). As a result of that journey, my OH has been invited as a guest speaker a couple of times for a seminar/symposium for PT and OT students at our local university, primarily on the subject of using para-sport in rehab... so hopefully our combined thoughts may resonate a bit, especially for any pediatric rehab you may be involved in

1. What were the questions going through your mind when finding out about your injury? -- initially she was too much scared/confused to think much beyond "what happened? Why don't my legs work?" and so on. There was a lot of the classic grief progression (why can't it just all go back to normal? Why me/us?) and then for us as parents, a lot of practical questions - dealing with insurance companies, lawyers, home renovation specialists, etc. By the time daughter got out of ICU and moving towards rehab, some of those early questions were a bit more settled. With encouragement from her superb medical and therapy team, most of rehab was focused on "how can I do this" rather than "why can't I do that." Make that your focus as far as you can.
2. What were the initial challenges (physical, emotional, functional, etc) going through rehab and what did your therapist do to help you stay motivated? Or what did you wish they could have done to better help you? -- Early physical challenges were the basics: sitting up, maintaining seated balance, transferring bed-to-chair, chair-to-floor, into and out of a vehicle, etc. Bowel and bladder function, and learning to self-cath (as a pubescent girl... my OH was completely brilliant about that as I wasn't much help as a dad!) - bowel stuff was a different story, though, as abdominal trauma had led to bowel resection and an ileostomy, so stoma management was rolled into everything else). PT, OT and SLP all worked really well together with surgican and medical teams to coordinate all this. From a PT perspective, again the focus on "how to do X" and keeping everything mostly positive (plenty of cheesy humour, plenty of empathy and emotional support) was a big help. Tracking achievable milestones, such as being passed "safe" to hold a wheelie and get rid of the anti-tippers, or beating last week's time on a stationary handbike, or whatever, all helped to keep motivation high. But the flipside was also important: acknowledging that everything was really a bit shit, and not even slightly fair, but you can still do this even when you don't feel like it...
3. For individuals with injuries above T6, what were your initial thoughts about AD and how could we better explain AD in the beginning of rehab? 
4. What were resources that helped you? And what were resources of information that could have helped you sooner? -- We're in Ontario, the SCI Association of Ontario sent in a peer mentor (in her mid-30s, had been injured as a teenager, went on to play para-sport at a national level, get married, have kids...) who was completely awesome. The inpatient rehab centre (Holland Bloorview Kids Rehabilitation Hospital) has a whole library on-site full of both consumer-appropriate and more academically-focused literature, and a full staff of psychological and social worker support for patients (and, importantly, for their families). All of that was invaluable. Access to adaptive sports, ADL resources, and play equipment was key, too - it was helpful for our daughter to be reminded that, despite all the hospital crap, she's still a kid and can still play basketball or bake a cake or tear around a playground with her friends.
5. What helped build better rapport with your therapist? -- Again, from the perspective of a parent, we were most impressed that our daughter's PT was easily able to switch gears from explaining things in kid-friendly terms, then addressing us (but never, ever, talking across our daughter or speaking about her in the third person while she was listening) as parents to go into a little more depth. She realized early on that our needs were best met by understanding the "why" as well as the "what" and was happy to take the time to explain her process. Her ability to find motivation to work hard, even when our daughter just wanted to curl up in a ball, played an enormous part in a successful inpatient rehab stay.
6. What was the most important thing you learned from rehab? -- Another one where I probably have a different perspective as a parent of a child with an SCI. For me, the one key learning is to know how and when to offer help, and when to acknowledge that, although daughter might take longer to do something, it's really really important for her that she does it herself until she decides to ask for assistance. That might be something as mundane as putting a sock on an uncooperative foot, or getting the jug of OJ from the back of the fridge - or it might be helping her into her hockey sledge or basketball chair, or talking to the transportation agents about her need for an aisle chair to get on and off a plane.
7. Other than your therapist, did you have a mentor? What did you learn from them? -- OMG yes! So many different people! It "helped," I suppose, that daughter's accident made the local news so people were like "oh, you're \*that\* kid" - but from the first visit from our SCIAO mentor while still in ICU, to the sledge hockey club, to a local resident who has lived with an acquired SCI for 40+ years and invited us to check out the modifications to his house, everybody we have met along the way has added to our store of knowledge and resources. If you get the opportunity to encourage your patients to seek advice from those who've been in their situation before, do so! Even if the conversation is as mundane as "where do you keep your catheters when you're out with friends" - people who've faced the situation in person may have a different perspective to the "official" answers from medical folks!

—— Other Q’s:

* How has COVID affected your daily routine?
* Any advice for me as a student on communication and overall patient care? -- One more personal plea from me as a parent/caregiver: involve the family, or the home-care team, in your conversations whenever possible. They're the ones who will be doing (often quite literally!) the heavy lifting once the pt is discharged from inpatient rehab, so they need to know the what, how, why, where and be prepared for their journey. ——

Good luck with your acute rehab rotation!,Hi u/oakvillein,

Oh wow! Thank you so much for answering my questions! She sounds amazing! You must be very proud of your daughter overcoming many obstacles and accomplishing so much from then to now. Like her mentor, she can be an inspiration to others as well. :D

The 'mundane' things though are thoughts that would solely come to mind when you encounter that particular situation. I didn't even think about home modifications or even the catheters. I am really glad you gave me the perspective of pediatrics with SCI because that didn't even come to mind until you responded, so thank you so much! 

Also, great advice about family and home-care team involvement! That is definitely an area we did not get to practice in school as much and I know during my rotations I will be have many opportunities to work on my communication and teaching skills with my patients and their family.Acute Rehab Experience,Following as I am an OT who just started on the SCI team,Congratulations! I hope we both learn from our responders on this thread! :)Acute Rehab Experience,I really benefited from the peer mentors at the hospital. If your rehab program, doesn't have a peer mentoring group, it should get one. Many of them would stop by after work every so often, with a variety of ages, genders, races, and educational backgrounds, so that many patients found someone they could relate to in one way or another.,Hi u/WildNW0nderful,

Thank you for the tip! I'm sure my rotation has one because the whole facility specializes in rehab and I will check in with them!   


If you don't mind me asking, what were things you benefited or learned from your peer mentors? Did you get to choose, who you wanted to be mentored by?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Sex-Life Post Injury - Where to begin?,Hey man, I just want to say that in my personal experience there are A LOT of women out there who won't care about you being in a wheelchair. I met my now ex-wife after my injury and have found a lot of success dating, since the divorce a few years ago, using a combo of dating apps and going to bars/clubs to meet new people. As for the other stuff, you may want to look into a viagra prescription. Not being able to orgasm sucks but over time you may find that the ability comes back - hard to say. Hope this helps!,Hey! thanks for the reply.

Honestly, just hearing that makes me feel a little more optimistic. I appreciate the words. I did see a urologist who recommended waiting until my first sexual experience post-injury to see if things change in the heat of the moment. Then follow-up things up with medication...So, we'll see!Sex-Life Post Injury - Where to begin?,I have some anecdotes, some advice, and whatnot. My advanced apologies for the length.

I'm a 35/F T12 complete. Married prior to SCI accident, divorced 4 years after it. Am now in a LTR with my (abled-bodied) boyfriend and we're just shy of 2 years (we met on Match.com).

To answer your first question, I find honesty is the best policy.  After my very bitter divorce, and the obligatory healing period afterwards, I was ready to date, but had grown to detest drama and the usual bullshit that typically comes with dating.  So on my profiles, I made sure there were pictures of me in the chair, I talked about it, but I also tried to make sure that people knew it didn't define me.  Not unlike able-bodied dating, women love confidence. And I found out men do too. When you're not in your 20s, you just don't have the desire to fake it anymore. So people love you for who you are, or they can gtfo.  I know it's corny, but the chair is kind of an asshole filter.  You are correct in that there are very few dating apps targeted for disabled dating. And those that supposedly are, tend to bring on the devotee crowd. Which, after dating a few self-proclaimed devs, it was rather fun. But not fulfilling. Anyway, in general, I would recommend using the more well-known sites, and paying for a subscription. Usually people that pay are more serious about finding a partner. As mentioned I met my boyfriend on match.com. But eHarmony was also a pretty good success for me. If money is a factor I also had success on plenty of fish, but a lot more weeds to deal with on that one.

Anyway, to answer your second question I feel it's important to tell you that one of the men I dated prior to my current guy was actually a C6/C7 complete quad.  Sure, I suppose I was a little more open-minded being in a chair myself. But he was definitely far less independent than I.  Penetrative sex for us was super rare (I would climb on top and motion my body with my arms. It was exhausting lol) There was a lot of foreplay, a lot of touching, and I could have kissed him forever. We both just had to alter our expectations. Sex wasn't going to be what it used to be for either of us. So we found other ways to feel sexy, feel good, and just have fun. Ultimately, especially with a spinal cord injury, the best sex organ is between your ears (brain).  Use that to your full advantage. I can imagine a relationship without penetration, because that one mostly was (And in case you're wondering, it ended because he ultimately couldn't allow himself to be loved and sabotaged our relationship). And honestly, he was one of my favorite lovers I've ever had. We just had such great emotional connection that I felt satisfied and fulfilled every time.  

All of that to say, is it easy to find someone willing to see you and not your chair? No. It absolutely isn't. But let's be fair, dating even able-bodied sucks. It's just a process that you have to go through, and initiation before you can find that special someone. My boyfriend isn't a saint for dating me, because I'm awesome 😁. But he is an honest to goodness good person because he took the time to get to know me. 
You will find a lady that isn't shallow, that trips your trigger, that makes you happy. Treat her with equality, and fairness. Manage your expectations of able-bodied life and your current one. Be open and honest. Have confidence in yourself, and it can happen 

Hit me up if you have more questions. If you want to talk. Any of it. I'm super open, and happy to share knowledge.,Hey there. No need to apologize for length, i appreciate the thoroughness of your reply. 
Honesty does sound like the best policy. That's funny you call it the "asshole filter" - I like that. It's very true though, you want someone who can see past the chair and past your deficiencies. However i feel like a lot of the dating apps encourage that 2 millisecond decision making, which usually relies on the more shallow, pretentious thought processes. That further tightens the pool of potentials. But!, I guess that further reinforces your point to invest in a monetary-based platform, where people are more committed to finding a lasting relationship. Interesting.

Its very interesting to get your perspective as a SCI ind. who has had relationships from both sides of the ability spectrum. It's certainly inspiring to hear you have had success in both. I look forward to using more of my brain. :)
All in all, you are right. You just have to manage your expectations and thought processes. I caught myself recently thinking how im so paranoid about my disability that im walking on eggshells and not being myself. Hopefully by just being honest from the get go and being up front (via wheelchair in picture, or description) will remove some of the pressure of relaying that information in the first place, so i can focus on being me and having fun.Sex-Life Post Injury - Where to begin?,C7 incomplete here, most definitely understand what you going through mentally right now, I’ve been through those motions, others in this forum probably has as well at some point in their journey. What changed for me, and I can only speak for myself, is accepting who I am, and loving ME first, and understanding, I am still ME. The process of getting to that level of clarity of self acceptance, and love is painful, emotional, and long (took me 9 years) but in the end it’s worth it. You end of finding your self and becoming self-aware, learning new things about yourself, and regaining that same pre-injury confidence of not more along the way. 

Most importantly you have to remove expectations and just live your best life. Be present and enjoy time.It brings a level of freedom and gratitude thats hard to explain until you experience it. Like I said previously it’s a process, a truly painful emotional one, but worth it in the end if you can overcome it.

This all comes full circle to relationships and dating. No human being can fill the void of love that your missing within yourself. A person can provide a level of love you’ve never experienced, but until you love you first, you will always battle with “am I good enough” which is unhealthy to any relationship because you can’t hide it. It will show.  Once you reach the level of “I am more than good enough” the universe will take care of the rest. 

Last thing, it’s not about someone accepting your new body. When a human truly loves you for who you are, this “new body” is invisible. When someone loves you for you, they don’t care about size, shape, or package. It’s about sharing moments and enjoying life alongside this person.Sex-Life Post Injury - Where to begin?,Yeah man. I was 28 when I had my injury too. I was very fortunate in a lot of aspects, and what you've written sounds a lot like my thoughts at the time. Since my injury, I have found the most wonderful woman who loves me for me and not who I once was. She is the greatest! There were some hurdles initially but we managed to get over them. I first had to level with myself and then from day 1 was very open and up front with her about everything. 

Feel free to pm me and we can talk in more depth.,Hey thank for reaching out. I know myself and anyone reading this, who is in a similar situation appreciates it. Nice to know you've been in a similar frame of mind at one point in your life, and have succeeded in transitioning into a happy relationship post injury.Sex-Life Post Injury - Where to begin?,[https://www.hotoctopuss.com/diverse-accessible-sex/additional-needs/](https://www.hotoctopuss.com/diverse-accessible-sex/additional-needs/),or try a hitachi magic wand.Sex-Life Post Injury - Where to begin?,A lot of people have covered the relationship parts so I’m just gonna focus on the physical. Between ED meds which range from viagra to tri-mix just talk to your urologist  personally I use a low dose tri-mix injection and BAM! At least a 2 hour hard on lol. 

Ejaculation gets tricky on the other hand. I’m a t5 para complete so no feeling....  I use a tens unit to ejaculate. But there are many options It seems like from what I’ve read vibrators tend to work easier on incomplete injuries than complete. But they to have an extensive range. From a hitachi wand and the hot octopuss vibrator to medical grade ones like the vibrect and ferticare. 

But somewhere in there you should find a way to ejaculate. Personally I’ve tried every vibrator except the ferticare and none worked. If you try the hot octopuss personally I’d just put the money towards a ferticare cuz I have one and it’s just a 170$ paper weight lol.  At least the ladies like my hitachi lol

So it just takes time trying things out. Carecure forums has a whole thread about it. https://www.carecure.net/forum/sci-community-forums/relationships-sexuality/128849-electro-nut-busting/page38#post2899516 you do need to make a profile to view the relationship sexuality partSex-Life Post Injury - Where to begin?,My boyfriend is 32 years post injury, c5-6 complete. We met as friends two years ago as my friend started working for him ( she ended up being shitty, which brought us closer together but that's another story), and we've been together a year and a half. 
I fancied the pants off him from the first time I met him, and after a few drinks would get a bit flirty. One night there was a few of us out in a club, we were talking but it was quite loud, he leaned over to say something and put his hand in the middle of my back for balance. I told him it was nice, then went to tell my friend that I'd help him to bed, and it went from there! 

Mostly the only time we can have proper penetrative sex is in the morning while he's on the bed, straight after his catheter, unfortunately at that point I'm usually too tired or in pain if I've not taken painkillers yet. Later on in the day, sometimes we have the opportunity for it in his chair (with difficulty as I'm not flexible), or we just do other things. 
We have plenty of toys, and are often trying out new things, or different ways. While penetrative sex would be a nice thing to have with him, it's not something I miss, and that side of our relationship is very fulfilling.

He has no sensation at all but takes Viagra, he has some herbal ones, and he also uses a penis pump and has a ferticare vibrator. Using all of these helps him he able to apply/remove his conveen himself and helps with his spasms, aside from sex stuff. He has not been able to achieve proper ejaculation.

If there was anything at all that I could change, it would be that he gets something out of sex. It does upset me that he can't, but not a pity or sad kind of way. 

As for dating, if I was to use an app or website now, I wouldn't care of someone used a wheelchair or walking aid or anything. If they had no pictures showing it I would hope they would mention it before meeting up, so we can decide if a place is suitable to go to or not.Sex-Life Post Injury - Where to begin?,Sorry for being late, but your post intrigued me.

1) There are women out there who would want to date and have sex with you even with your injury. I wouldn't mind dating someone with a SCI, for example. Sorry I can't give you any resources to help find any girls, but I wanted to let you know it's not a lost cause.

2) This is something I only learned about more recently and am still completely new to it, but have you heard of tantric sex? From my limited understanding, it is a slow form of sex with the aim of building a deeper emotional and spiritual connection with your partner that is supposed to lead to longer and more pleasurable orgasms even if intercourse doesn't happen. The good people at r/tantricsex can help you if you're interested.

About telling a woman about your issues, do you mean in general as a quadriplegic or specifically sex-related? You should hold off on the sex stuff unless it is understood at the beginning that you two just want to bang. If you want a long-term relationship, talk about yourself like hobbies, interests, etc. before diving into sex. Unless you are planning to date online for a while instead of meeting online then in person within a week, you'd be jumping the gun to talk about sex before a physical date. If you mean general issues, too much info at once may overwhelm her. Take it slow, get to know each other as people, and answer any questions she has when she asks or you need to explain something.

Good luck out there!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Support and general questions,You’re right, I hate those questions about walking again. It makes the conversation so awkward. For me, The most depressing time was after rehab at home when people stop coming around. Luckily I had two good friends (I was hurt in high school, C6) that would take me out.,Understood, I can definitely see the loneliness when time marches on and life just has to continue. This guy has kids though and they will of course want to see him every day. Has to be a great source of comfort.Support and general questions,[deleted],I'm suspecting family will be a life saver. Divorce I worry about. 
Understood about the calories. Hadn't thought about the decrease in caloric need but it makes total sense of course.
Thanks!Support and general questions,I'm a C4/C5 myself and can't use my hands. I had my accident as a teen in high school. For me, the hardest part about being a quadriplegic is being left out. There's so much I don't get to do that I once did, but there's still a lot I can do. I graduated college twice, got married, traveled all over, and taught wild 6th graders, so almost anything is possible. Relationships are important as well. I have no friends right now (hang out and chill with friends), but that's mostly on me. My wife is my best friend. Psychology, it's with you in some form or fashion forever, but it doesn't stop you from living life.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Spinergy wheels. What axles do I need?,I have just ordered myself a TiLite chair, fairly sure they use the standard axle pins at 110mm. What exactly makes you think they are too long? Most axle pins have a little nut that shortens or extends a small amount as required.,There was a bit of play with the lx wheel on the axle I have. I’m estimating it was a quarter inch, which is the interval the axle sizes come in, but I don’t have a great way of measuring that. 

I’d like both wheel sets to be usable and I don’t think I’ll be able to make that adjustment myself, so I want to get a second set of axles anyway.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
How Have Drs Not Found An SCI In My Spine?,Pain alone is not an indicator of an SCI. Loss of neurological function (both motor and sensor function) would be. 

Not a doctor - maybe the problem is in the nerve roots (nerves leaving the spinal cord, but they are not considered part of it) or farther down in the peripheral nervous system? 

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radiculopathy

Oh, if you have this pain in your face, it is most likely not related to anything in your spinal cord, as the face is innervated by the trigeminal nerve, a cranial nerve.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trigeminal_nerve

(Just for the sake of completeness: Did they take an MRI of your brain? Did they check for demyelination, i.e. sensory evoked potentials examination?)


> If I have Lyme, then why does my pain only get worse positionally?

Not a doctor - maybe because in certain positions the body exerts pressure on the Lyme-damaged nerves?

I've personally seen two people get crippled by Lyme's disease (both very active outdoors, and caught it from tick bites). It's nasty stuff.


> I've seen over 40 drs, including 5 neurosurgeons, in the last 6 years but they won't operate. They don't think anything they do will ease the pain.

Poking around people's central nervous systems with surgical tools without a plan or at least a reason is not good medicine, I agree.How Have Drs Not Found An SCI In My Spine?,Hey man. Thanks for sharing. I too have asked that for as long as I've been injured. What keeps me going is, that the next big breakthrough in painmanagement or even a better SCI treatment could show up, just like penicillin in the petridishes in the window.
Nothing is granted, and even though I'm not where'd like to be, I try to make where I am the next stepping stone.
Feel free to write me anytime,Hey Tonic Water, what kind of injury do you have? Do you experience similar feelings in your body as I do? I would like to pick your brain, as this can feel like one of the loneliest disorders. Sorry to bitch, just venting :)How Have Drs Not Found An SCI In My Spine?,Hey man
I havea C5 spinalcord injury, happened while I was skiing in 2018.
I have some degree of neuropain, but mainly it's the paralysis for me. Although we have different complications I still think the whole SCI community can relate to each other. :),Sorry to hear brother (or sister) 😢

What is your paralyzation and pain like? Is it all over body pain? Do you feel pain in parts that are paralyzed? I have so much to learn.

Thanks for writing me. Sending positive vibrations your way :)How Have Drs Not Found An SCI In My Spine?,You story sounds exactly like chronic Lyme. My mom has very similar symptoms. What treatment did you get and how soon did you get it after you were bitten by a tick?,I bet if you got a nerve biopsy it would be clean. My mom has horrible burning pain all over her skin. She had a nerve biopsy done and it was normal, no damage just horrible peripheral neuropathy. This is kinda my own theory but I’m sticking to it/adaptation over time. Crazy part about Lyme disease is it likes to hide in places with low blood flow, it’s a microaerophile. Part of my thoughts is that old remnants of parasite (dirversity of parasites that come with ticks microbiome) get lodged into capillaries and can’t get broken down. Borellia takes advantage of the dead parasite and survives insides it. (Kinda a fringe theory but google it) I only truly believe this because I have taken a drop of my mothers peripheral blood(finger tip) and stuck it under a microscope slide. I saw dead chucks of what looked to be microfilarie. Low blood flow means limited access to oxygen, antibiotics, etc. over time these bacteria grow and form biofilms. Where do you have capillaries in the body? Everywhere. Thousands and thousands of miles of capillaries in our bodies, but some are better oxygenated than others. Suggestions like aerobic exercise or sweating/heat may help to increase blood flow, which drives the O2 content up in the capillaries I.e helps create an environment in which Lyme cannot survive. Japanese knotweed (resveratrol + other natural compounds) is believed to help Lyme by increasing and enhancing blood flow. Johns Hopkins has done a lot of studies in mice and culture looking at the presence of different varients of borellia. Some bacteria grow fast (log phase) and are treated by conventional  antibiotics. Unfortunately some grow slow (persisters) and are not killed by the standard of care... and then we develop chronic Lyme. 

My mom has had problems with increasing severity over the past 4 or so years. I’ve been googling ever since she got sick. As for a little bit of my background, I’m a 4th year phd student at UF studying medical sciences. My research is in neuroscience not Lyme but my mother Illness has pushed me to spend hours and hours and hours thinking and researching about it. 
Also look into otezla, my mom said it helped “some” of her pain.  Also with opioids and anti anxiety meds on board, your body could be slightly hypoxic. Opioids plus other drugs equals respiratory depression maybe not when your awake but likely during sleep. I urge you to try to remain active. By laying in bed your muscles begin to waste away. One of my friends has mentioned that bed-ridden patients can use electrical stimulators to “exercise”. If you have no tolerance to exercise maybe you could get one of those.,Sorry I am replying so late! You go to UF? I am a UF engineering alumn. Such a small world.

I like your theory of how Lyme is in our capillaries. Let me ask, do you know if Lyme can cause CSF leaks? My neurologist thinks I have one due to my positional headaches and various symptoms, and it matches my symptoms perfectly. But it doesn’t explain the pain I have in every single joint. Lyme does, however.

I’ve tried so many treatments for Lyme. We tried IV rocephin for 6 months, Minocycline, doxycycline, and about 4 other antibiotics. Also have tried a concoction of the best Lyme herbs in high doses - every day for a year. None of these treatments did anything, and I’ve just progressed. 

Do you reside in Gainesville, FL?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Colonoscopy?,Yeah, I had one. Everyone is different, it wasn’t pleasant, but it wasn’t that difficult. I can’t walk, but I can feel when I have to have a bowel movement. Not that it matters too much because you have to drink that colon-blow stuff, so a bowel movement is imminent 20-30 minutes after drinking it. It sucks for everyone, SCI or not. You literally spend all day on the toilet. By the time you’re done shitting your brains out it’s almost time to go drink another glass of that stuff and do it all over again. I had no accidents, no mess. Just a sore asshole and an automatic aversion whenever I reached for my next glass of that terrible drink.,I just had to laugh at the "sore asshole" comment.  I have to get these done every year so I totally get it.  I call the prep, "the night of a thousand waterfalls".  You can't tell if you are pooping or peeing.  I just give up and sit on the toilet with a book.Colonoscopy?,I've had one, they admitted me to the hospital for the previous 2 days and made me regularly drink some liquid that... uh... cleansed my bowels if you know what I mean while I only had liquid nutrition, it was a pink something that tasted awful and didn't satiate. When they put the probe up they've still seen a lot of residual... stuff, so it wasn't quite working, but they could perform the colonoscopy. Will depend on your country of residence if this is a viable option at all though.Colonoscopy?,Pro-tip when drinking satan’s ball sweat (the drink they prescribe to you) - refrigerate it and have a second drink near you. Take a sip then then take a sip of a soda or juice to help you from gagging. The colon-juice is god awful tasting and can make you gag and vomit.Colonoscopy?,Are there not alternative tests to  the colonoscopy, maybe not quite as effective but no cleansing required?,Yeah, the DNA test. As long as it's negative, you can avoid having a colonoscopy. They're pretty effective.,I think that depends on what you are having the colonoscopy for. If it’s for routine colon cancer screening the tens no easy way around it. Bowel prep is so they can see every square inch of your colon with no poop interference in the way.Colonoscopy?,Yup I’ve had 2 colonoscopys. Prep day is rough. Extra soft toilet paper & butt wipes help. I get nausea from drinking the solution & not being able to eat so lots of jello & chicken broth saved me. I drank pedialight the second time & that helped so much.Colonoscopy?,I did - T-12/L-1

stayed naked at home and did the dash

Dr. told me I had a clean colon, for whatever that is worthColonoscopy?,I had one, but I am still able to walk. It is a huge mess. I also felt intense anxiety - I think because my blood sugar was so low. I was begging my sister to take me home just before the colonoscopy, while still running to the bathroom. Take two Dulcolax the night before drinking the nasty stuff - I think it’s called Go-lightly - and have someone there with you to help you clean up. If that isn’t possible, can you ask your doctor to stay in the hospital the night before or if there are some easier ways to do the prep? The test is easy compared to the preparation.Colonoscopy?,My husband had one done, and it was an ordeal, but do-able.  He can't walk so he definitely needed my help.  We just had to be vigilant and stay on top of emptying the bag out, so sleep the night before was  non-existent.  It was actually easier on him in a way; before the skin on his butt would be horrible after all night on the toliet.,What do you mean by emptying the bag? Does he have a stoma?Colonoscopy?,Yep! Has one. Was a bit messy but that wasn’t the worst of it. 2 days after my stomach got real gassy and it turns out I got colonists with streams of bloody mess bursting out. A quick trip to the ER and some antibiotics took care of it. Scary.,haha what kind of "colonists" did you get?Colonoscopy?,Not sure. ER doc said they usually do a colonoscopy to find out but since I just had one they just pumped me full of antibiotics.Colonoscopy?,ColonitisColonoscopy?,Bahaha. I get it. Oops.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Fractured L1 Causing Cauda Equina,Had an l1 burst fracture last april, i had no sensation in my feet and calf for months, and slowly started coming back, like everything else. It is a waiting game, you have to be very patient, and also work as hard as you can. 6 weeks is very early, new studies shows, that the spinal cord can regenerate  for up to 6 years(?) Also, it's different for everyone.
 I'm walking kinda okay, can run for a fee minutes, have problems with my balance and in the last month just started to urinate without pushing my abs. Was using catheter till january, since then i have to push a bit-or sometimes a lot- to be able to urinate.
Meditation helps a lot, i'm practiseing qigong mostly. 
Hope it helped, you could dm me if you want to.

Good luckFractured L1 Causing Cauda Equina,I had a t12 injury that at first left we fully paralyzed from the waist down. I gained quad movement first and now a year in the only movement I dont have is my left ankle and calf. Bowel movements stabilized as well. It takes a long time to heal and you have to try and work the muscles. Great therapy helped me and also AFOs to be able to walk with crutches.Fractured L1 Causing Cauda Equina,I have a t5-9 fusion.  At time of injury, I tripped and fell forward to palms and knees,I lost feeling below the right knee. Over the next 4 weeks slowly everything below my waist became numb and I struggled to move my legs.  Surgery and 10 months of therapy later I can walk.  I walk with a cane, can’t feel the soles of my feet, take drugs to control the clonus in my legs, oh yeah don’t have sensation when I urinate or during sex. Some days are better than others.  BUT I’m alive and so are you and this is not a death sentence.  Yes, nerves do what they want and hard work helps.  Feel free to pm me.Fractured L1 Causing Cauda Equina,L1 incomplete burst fracture 3.5 years ago. Took a few months to be able to move anything below the waist. Quads came back quickest and sensation in the right leg got down to the ankle so muscles rejuvenated well in that leg. Less feeling in the left leg, not really anything below the knee. However, sometimes I can feel my feet or ties but it intermittent and doesn’t stay long. Still cathing but can push some urine out. Bowel program has gotten better but still can’t void completely. I’m using “toe-offs” and can walk with a walker a bit. Crutches are harder cause of balancing issues. Using my wheelchair for long periods out still and until stamina increases. It’s a hard new normal and requires a lot of PT but it really is up to you.Fractured L1 Causing Cauda Equina,I have the same fracture. My injury was 2 years ago. I can walk, but I have no sensation in my butt, my left foot, I can’t move my left ankle, and I have no bladder or bowel function. Unfortunately it’s just a waiting game. I hope you heal and get better as your recovery goes on.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
HELP: PREGNANCY AMONG SUPER PETITE LADIES WITH A S.C.I.,I’m 5’2” and T10 complete. Not super tiny like you I was prob 110-120lbs pre-pregnancies. I am currently 32 weeks pregnant with my second. My husband is 6’2” and my son who is now almost 2 yrs old is in the 95-99th percentile for height and weight! He was born at 39 weeks via induction and was smallish at birth 7lb4oz but tall at 21”. His delivery went very very well and I would say I didn’t and currently don’t have any major issues other than typical pregnancy complaints and aches! If you have any other questions just lmk!,Thank you so much, your reply gives me some confidence. 

I may take you up on your offer as I think of questions. Some might be pretty personal, may I have your permission to privately MSG you?HELP: PREGNANCY AMONG SUPER PETITE LADIES WITH A S.C.I.,Sorry, I’m the opposite of petite and haven’t had children so I can’t give my own experience. But you might find some of the groups on Facebook to be helpful - they’re definitely more active than this sub. The two I know of are more UK-centric; I believe there are US equivalents but I’m not familiar with them. 

If you think it might be helpful, the two I’m thinking of are SCI Owners’ Group and SCI Powder Room (the latter is for women only). 

Good luck, and sorry I can’t be more help. I’m sure it’s a lot to process, so I hope your appointment goes well tomorrow!,This is a good start, thank you.,Thank you all for the references, you all are amazing! 

The titles of these groups, though -- HA!HELP: PREGNANCY AMONG SUPER PETITE LADIES WITH A S.C.I.,Sorry I have no experience with any of this but here is a link to the shepherd center in Atlanta (excellent sci place, I can not recommend them enough). This is a specific section for women with sci and if has an area for pregnancy. The people at shepherd really care and want to help so if you have questions they would be more than willing to help you. 

https://www.myshepherdconnection.org/sci/women,I've actually stumbled on this website prior and it was indeed rather insightful. Your input will have me contact further, this is excellent -- thank you. I hope they can provide resources in my Southern California area.HELP: PREGNANCY AMONG SUPER PETITE LADIES WITH A S.C.I.,I’m c5 incomplete and use a wheelchair for long distances. I am not petite (5’9) but am very thin due to my injury.  I’ve had 2 kids both at 38 weeks via c-section. My daughter was 7 lbs and 10oz and my son was 7lbs 12oz.  My advice to you is find a high-risk OBGYN that actually has experience with SCI.  I was watched very closely by my doctor.,7 lbs is 3.18 kgHELP: PREGNANCY AMONG SUPER PETITE LADIES WITH A S.C.I.,that sounds like an old wives’ tale. my OB told us with newborns they tend to have a similar birth weight as their mother did, though exceptions happen obviously for many reasonsPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Mucus accidents after colostomy,I've had a colostomy for about five years. For most of that time I didn't have any issues with mucus from the stump bowel. However I have started to have increased spasms that seem to be caused by mucus plug buildup there, which is cleared out by a fleet enema every few weeks, still experimenting with the frequency. I've never had any discharge though, if I don't have an enema it just stays there and must make my body uncomfortable.

I suspect I have some internal haemorrhoids that are irritating things and causing the buildup considering how long I went without any problems. Going to have some more investigation is done.

I still think the colostomy was one of the best things I've had done, I don't miss bowel days at all!,This was helpful to me. I may be facing some decisions about my GI function and management, in the near future. You've alleviated some concerns. If I need to ask more, when the time comes, I'd post my own thread, but thanks for your reply.,That's interesting (and unfortunate) that you only started to have some issues now. Thanks for the help, best of luck to you in figuring it out!Mucus accidents after colostomy,Having to change several times a day is a bummer. I've recently started to leak when I bend down to grab stuff from the floor. Being c6/c7 it's a whole workout to transfer to bed change and transfer back on the wheelchair. I'm paranoid now, checking if I've been leaking all the time. I know this is not helpful just wanted to share :),Any information is definitely helpful, both good or bad. Thanks for the information!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Anybody ever had stem cell? Thanks,I've had a Schwann cell transplant. They're very similar to stem cells. If that's what you're asking...?,What did it achieve? Cheers,Did it improve anything?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Keep leaking when bending down to grab stuff.,I have a high T injury, but my experience is that I didn’t leak positionally, gained a bunch of weight, started leaking positionally, lost (not enough) weight and positional leaking stopped.  

I asked Urology about it when the leaking began and they said that often over time with complete injuries muscles weaken and positional leaking becomes more common, so that’s another consideration.  

Depending on where you are and what your sensation is like, bladder Botox may be inpatient, which can take a while to get authorized so you may want to open the conversation sooner than later.,Thanks,Dropping weight with an SCI is so frustrating. I’ve dropped 20 in the last 4 months but hit a plateau. I literally have 2 protein shakes (450cal) and one decent meal (700-1000cal) per day and it’s barely coming off anymore. Hitting weights and pushing a hard mile 5 days a week. I fully regret my first miserable 3 years. All I did was eat...🤦‍♂️Posted Question, Comment, Reply
How do you explain your injury to kids?,I always wanted to fuck with them and say "the monster under my bed got me". My dad convinced me not to though...,That's a good one. I tell them that I didn't eat my fruits and vegetables...How do you explain your injury to kids?,I had an accident that broke my back. Now my brain can't talk to my legs because there's a break in between.,Mine is very close to that. Ask if they have heard of nerves or a spinal cord? If not, explain nerves re kind of like a wire that carries messages from my brain to my feet and my feet to my brain. Then demonstrate moving my arms (or working body part) and say my brain can send the messages to my arms, but the message can't get to my feet.,I used to compare it to cutting a phone cord but that doesn’t work anymore.How do you explain your injury to kids?,My niece 6 always asks why I can't walk. I always tell her the truth about tree falling on my car because of the storm and breaking my back. Best way to tell it as it is I think.How do you explain your injury to kids?,My legs don’t work properly like yours so sometimes I need to use a wheelchair/crutches?How do you explain your injury to kids?,I’ve been teaching kindergarten through 2nd grade for 12 years. Kids can handle it. First day of school I tell the story of how I fell off a cliff. Then when they ask about it later we go a little deeper. I do tell them when what they are asking is private. I won’t explain catheters to a 6 year old so I’ll just tell them it’s too personal a question, I like to keep bathroom stuff private. No kid has been offended by that one yet.How do you explain your injury to kids?,I just straight up tell them what happened using simple terms that are age appropriate. Children are people too and I always try to treat them with dignity and respect as fellow humans on this planet. What I would tell a 6 year old is different than what I would tell a 10 year old or a 15 year old or a 3 year old so it’s hard to say specifically.

I might tell a 3 year old that I got a boo boo on my back and it made my legs tired. I’d tell a 6 year old that I hurt my back and now my legs don’t work right anymore. I’d tell a 10 year old that I have a spinal cord injury that affected my ability to move my legs. I’d tell a 15 year old the basics (that I would tell an adult) but I would keep it PG-13 and leave out any drama and keep it dispassionate (because airing out dirty laundry to a teen is inappropriate).How do you explain your injury to kids?,Everyone else is giving good advice so I just wanted to share a funny story. Neighborhood kids came up to my house while I was outside with my dog and were playing. A young girl asked me why I was in a wheelchair and I said I broke my neck and can’t walk. She responded and said shouldn’t you break your foot and not be able to walk. It made me laugh and thought well yea a kid would be confused by my statement.,> She responded and said shouldn’t you break your foot and not be able to walk.

Both would do it, but the foot heals eventually, the neck does not.How do you explain your injury to kids?,thats an interesting question, I don't know but... I've replied to kids ranging from "I was born like this" to "I didn't listen to my mommy" lol. 

&#x200B;

I always find it amusing how unfiltered kids are...... OH MY GOD YOURE IN A WHEELCHAIR YOU CANT WALK!!!! YOU CANT WALK!!!! YOU CANT WALK UP STAIRS? HOW DOES IT FEEL?How do you explain your injury to kids?,It depends on how old they are, really.  Small kids I tell I got hurt and now my brain can’t talk to my feet and then kind of work up/add specifics from there.  

I am careful to always answer further questions (how do you pee if you can’t walk to the potty?) as clearly as possible - I don’t want kids to be ashamed of having questions, so as long as they’re polite and I can figure out how to relay information in a way that seems age appropriate and also respectful, then I do.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
L4-S5, here. Female, obviously. Originally posted to dying sub. Question is below! :),Usually, lower level injuries lead to a flaccid (or atonic, sometimes called non-reflex) bladder. That means you're unlikely to leak unless your bladder is literally overfilling (unlike a reflex bladder, where involuntary spasms can cause leakage). So you could try increasing the frequency of your cathing (every 3-4 hours, for example) for a period of time, and if you're still getting discharge on your underwear that would suggest it's vaginal discharge rather than urine. If it's whitish and thicker than water, that's another good indication that it's vaginal discharge and not urine.,That’s the thing, I don’t cath. I’m getting a new mri in 2 weeks, but my condition is degenerative, similar to Spina Bifida in a way. I use the valsalva maneuver to urinate, which was recommended to me by a urologist about 6 months ago now. My sensation to urinate isn’t always there, so I do leak a little bit (a drop or two) when it overflows. But my sensation is changing, my symptoms are changing, and now it’s getting harder to urinate with the valsalva maneuver and I’m just getting overwhelmed, to be honest.L4-S5, here. Female, obviously. Originally posted to dying sub. Question is below! :),The sniff test should help! Urine is pretty distinct!,I was equally hoping someone would and would not reply with this comment. I have done this one a couple of occasions but thought it was weird, lolL4-S5, here. Female, obviously. Originally posted to dying sub. Question is below! :),Every. Single. Time that I see my urologist I get this same lecture about kidney damage being the leading cause of death for people with spinal cord injuries and that I **HAVE** to protect my kidneys. Any time that you suspect that there is a problem go see your Doctor. GP or Urologist. (I'm told to just show up at my Urologist office but YMMV) Kidney damage is cumulative and you may not qualify for a transplant due to pre-existing conditions.L4-S5, here. Female, obviously. Originally posted to dying sub. Question is below! :),So I am not sure if this will help or just confuse things further but I had a thoracic giant pseudomeningocele develop after a surgery and as it changed (grew and shrank) it had a lot of weird and mostly unpredicted effects, including interfering pretty dramatically with bowel and bladder function, which was something neurosurgery asked a kit very specifically.  I have had surgery for syrinxes and the outcomes were far better than I had dared to hope.,I’m told I was probably born with this growing in me. I had surgery last summer, and my cyst came back to half it’s pre-surgery size in 5 months. I’m getting my year-post-op mri in 2 weeks. I have a feeling it’s at least back to full pre-surgery size (if not bigger) by the time I get the new mri. It was 12cm before surgery last summer.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Quads wearing a wedding band?,I'm a C6 C7 quadriplegic that has been wearing one for 15 years of my married life. Weight loss made me need to downsize so I went to silicone rings. I might wear the titanium one for pictures, but it falls off now so I'm happy with the repeater silicone.

In all that time, including wearing it during Woodworking and other significantly risky activities, I've never had a threat or concern over wearing a ring. You should be fine.

The one thing I did consider when we were shopping for mine was whether a comfort fit might make a difference for reducing the risk of pressure areas. I don't think it was a bad idea to choose that feature of the ring and I don't know if it cost a penny more, just a matter of which one we chose.

You should be good, I hope the proposal goes fantastically and let us know how it went.,Thanks for your input! Really appreciate it!!!Quads wearing a wedding band?,You could look into a silicone ring if you really want to wear one. My husband doesn't wear a ring (never has, even before SCI, except for some pictures).

I personally like wearing a qalo brand silicone ring.,I’ll check those out!! Thank you!Quads wearing a wedding band?,We aren't married but been together 19 years. We just got matching tattoos on our ring finger if that's something you're into?,I have sleeves so that’s definitely something I’ve considered!Quads wearing a wedding band?,I guess I’m confused as to why it would be unsafe. I’m a para, not a quad, so it might be something I’m unfamiliar with.,I'm a quad and have worn one for 5 years. I am also confused how it would be dangerous if its just a band.

Can anyone enlighten us?Quads wearing a wedding band?,C5 C6 incomplete, the small hand tingling I experience becomes an insatiable itch with a ring on, decided to go the tattoo route.,Nice! I’m fairly heavily tattooed so I’ll consider that route!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
3+ years post, bowel situation has started changing...,Have you started eating any thing you normally don’t? Are you consuming dairy? I randomly became lactose intolerant after 4 years post-injury. You also could try not using suppositories, digital stimulation works fine by itself for me,Oh so it's not just me alone who became lactose intolerant randomly! Nice to read. But digi stimulation alone doesn't work for me. I have to use suppository.,I can't say that I have started eating anything new, we (partner and I) generally have stuck to the same diet for years. And only a bit of dairy (a slice of cheese or yogurt on occasion) but it's generally never been an issue for me - that's wild lactose intolerance just cropped up for you like that! I wonder if maybe I'm seeing some similar kind of change too, with that or something else...

Interesting thought re: suppositories. I've had a tough time getting things going without them generally but...maybe it's time to try switching up the program. Thanks for the feedback/your experience - def. can feel lonely dealing dealing with it :)3+ years post, bowel situation has started changing...,Hay there, 10years, t10 complete on this corner of the world. I am hoping this is useful for you. Especially when we both are same level 🙂

From what you shared I seem to figure you are a person of regime. I like it, for I believe I am a man of regime... Not as strong or systematic as my friends or peers, but regime nonetheless. Morning first thing, after brushing is the morning chores: adult suppository + digital stimulation. Do it for at least 50 minutes or an hr and then be done with it. I often try to do within the same time bracket in the morning. Rarely I do cut myself some slack, a skip a bowel day but those days I eat very less and mainly green veggies. Do note, I am a vegetarian (yeah by choice, don't like eating animals). And I probably would have had bowel accidents 12-14 times, mostly at home and at work 3-4 times. After 9yrs of my injury, in my 30s, it took a while for me to realize, if I have milk based items, empty stomach, after my morning chores, as first meal, I'll have a bowel accident. This wasn't the case before, like 2-3 yrs ago. I figured body has changed, aged, and now I have to maintain it. Which is why i started having milk based items after my first meal. No problem after that. 

I also observed my bowel program is affected a lot by the weather also. During winter it takes longer, this again is my theory. Might not apply to you at all. 

I personally haven't experienced this, because I have stuck to a system: almost at the same time, every day, for at least an hour. And with suppository. Many people don't use it, but I use it everyday cuz it gives the confidence I will not shit my pants unless I eat something that doesn't goes well with my stomach. And till now it has only been the milk scenario in recent time that I know doesn't go well. 

I do keep transferring a lot, and do push ups on my wheelchair (lift myself up pressing against the wheels) in the name of body movements. Do household chores, like doing the dishes, sometimes cook, sweep the house (I don't vacuum, use a broom to sweep, if that's what the say). 

If you want, you could try a suppository : 10mg a day and figure if it works better. 

Also, if you crossed your 30s, body is aging we need to account for somethings which we used to ignore before.,This is all incredibly useful! Thank you for sharing all this dude :)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Degenerative Disk - SCI related?,I have a C5 injury with just rods in my neck for 11 years. I've been contorting the same way you describe along with forming a calcium mass near S1 due to long periods sitting and my S vertebrae fusing together and breaking. My surgeon is willing to do screws and rods but like you've already figured it'll just continue. So, we've decided on steroid injections to help with pain until surgery is necessary.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Feeling terrible after appointment with andrologist,The doctor should not have said that.  I was injured at 18, I have zero sensation in my dick, viagra doesn't do anything but make my face red, I have no reflex erections and for years no psychogenic erections.  But now I do have psychogenic erections.  It changed.  My partner and I figured it out together over the past twenty years.  Sex is more pleasurable and I have more sexual function now than I did at 20. A big part of that is how much love and trust I have with my guy.  He makes me feel way better than I can make myself feel, and it wasn't always like that. For years I thought I could only contribute with oral, not so. 

I know how cheesy this sounds but your brain is the biggest sex organ and you might just be amazed, like I was, at how very very good sex can be with the right person doing the right things with/to you. If you believe you can't get anything out of sex it will be harder to find ways to make it work.  Doctors can not tell you exactly how your body will function after injury, especially in regard to sex. They don't know everything.   
Your body and its' responses can change. 

Try other things and stay open to possibilities.  Cialis/tadalafil works for many who viagra doesn't.  Explore, realize it may just feel pointless sometimes but STAY OPEN to pleasure.Feeling terrible after appointment with andrologist,The not feeling sex part sucks. There's usually tons of options to sustain an erection from shots to wearables to different surgeries. Try the different drugs before the surgeries.

If you can't orgasm and ejaculate then ask your doctor about "electroejaculation." I have not done this but was told that it is an option when / if I meet someone and want kids. That's odd an andrologist didn't explain this to you?,I think that's what the doctor mentioned to me as a test in a hospital, but I really wouldn't want to use it in my daily life. :( Thanks thoughFeeling terrible after appointment with andrologist,Not injured, but do SCI research in bladder, bowel, and sexual function. 

I would point you toward The Miami Project to Cure Paralysis for fertility information, link at bottom. Electroejaculation is a procedure that uses electrical prostate stimulation to cause an ejaculation, typically for in vitro fertilization and not during intercourse. 

There are some high frequency, high intensity, vibrators that can help achieve ejaculation without the need for electroejaculation, but again is usually for fertility and conception rather than during sex. 

As far as having children, this group is having quite a bit of success, but I am sure it is all very expensive (in vitro fertilization or artificial insemination can be quite pricey).

In terms of the actual sexual component you are talking about, there is some fMRI data showing that prostate stimulation in males can cause brain activity changes that resemble pleasurable sensations, but I didn't see the published paper yet (grain of salt). Maybe that won't work for you because of your bowel issues, not sure.

As for just being a guy, there are lots of ways to pleasure a partner besides penetrative sex. An open and understanding conversation could lead to positive relationships that could be fulfilling. 

I wish you well. 

https://www.themiamiproject.org/home/research-resources/areas-of-research/fertility/Feeling terrible after appointment with andrologist,dude, all I can say is you'll never know unless you try. Also - since you had an injury prenatal your brain at that age is super plastic so sexual pleasure etc may have simply been rerouted from your penis to elsewhere. Some people with SCI post injury report having orgasm like sensations from being touched in places other than their dick...you are going to need to explore a bit.

I would also suggest going here as it is one of the most populated SCI forums on the net with nurses and people with tons of experience: https://www.carecure.net/forum

Every injury is different and doctors always give worst case news. Doctors don't know everything. You're going to have to try and see what happens for you.Feeling terrible after appointment with andrologist,That doctor is so way wrong and narrow minded. There are plenty of ways tok pleasure yourself and your partner despite disability. You just have find what works for each other, and experimenting is the fun part any way!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
First time having sex after SCI,Sounds like you are handling the issue in a thoughtful, mature way. I cannot speak so much to female orgasm but I do know there is a correlation in men between injury level and the ability to orgasm without electro therapy etc. My understanding is that men T-6 and above can ejaculate. I am T-5,6 and managed to father five children the old fashioned way, although orgasm can be painful at times due to dysreflexia. However, there are therapies that can trigger ejaculation in men with lower injuries but they generally involve clinical application by fertility specialists. But I have heard of men ejaculating/ triggering orgasm simply from vibrator stimulation. So you might try clitoral stimulation using a vibrator and see if that could work. I wish you the best of luck with everything. I have been injured for 30 years and  can say there is life after SCI so hang in there.,(M20) I’ve been struggling with Suicide after my SCI at age of 17, the phrase that you said give me hope, there’s life after SCI so I just have to keep on the struggle until everything gets better. Thanks manFirst time having sex after SCI,I was injured when I was 22 and I am 27 now and only recently with my current partner been able to cum. It's obviously not even close to what it was before but it still feels good.

I've had partners before him but none of them turned me on like he did so I think that is a factor! Maybe trying porn too, you just have to be super horny. I've also had success with "squirting" which you may see it how you see it, but turns out it is super hot to my partner so rub your gspot a lot or have him do it til you're gushing!

I've also found if I'm really turned on I'll rub my clit like I used to and I can feel a build up and my heart racing like when I used to cum. It's gonna take a lot of focus and practice, also I feel like I regained more feeling over the years. I'm a t12 incomplete btw.

Anyways I'd love to talk more anytime and if you want you can message me here or on Instagram @lilboofs_tvFirst time having sex after SCI,First time after injury I've (c6/c7 male) had sex I think it was2 months after my injury, while in rehab at Sheppard center a day after switching to intermittent catheters.  My sex drive was still really high, with time it went down significantly. Me and gf didnt have sex in maybe a year, but that has nothing to do with injury, it's probably time to break up. Before they took the tube out at the hospital there was a chance I wouldnt have sexual function. I kinda miss masturbation more than sex, but that's just me crying about not having my right hand function. 🤗,Hey fellow Sheppard alum. I don't have anything useful to add, just wanted to say hi.First time having sex after SCI,I do not have a complete injury and mine is at a lower level but my injury has really impacted my ability to feel much of anything below my hips. My sexual function has taken a big hit from it although I am not completely unable to feel anything, so ymmv.

The neat thing is most folks born with "female" anatomy like us seem to, unlike folks born with "male" anatomy have some nerve endings that run though the vagus nerve and bypass the spinal cord. Nipple stimulation also seems to be wired up to the same portion of the brain that feels your regular type of sexual pleasure. 

I used to be one of those people that could orgasm quickly and even just from penetration and was very sensitive below the belt...and losing that was hard.
But! Pulling out all the stops so to speak (simultaneous nipple, clitoral and internal stimulation---fingers will become much more integral than dick for your sex life) and really getting into things mentally means I can orgasm again (nowhere near as strongly or for as long as I used to, but it's definitely an orgasm) if my partner takes their time and there's lots of foreplay and chemistry. You might find that you can too.First time having sex after SCI,Not injured, but do research on SCI. There have been a number of studies on sexual stimulation and orgasm in women after injury. 

Komisaruk and his group at Rutgers have done a number of studies that may be of interest to you. I am not sure of your comfort reading technical papers, but they are mostly available for free online. You can probably just read the introduction and discussion of the papers if you don't have expertise reading science papers. Keep a dictionary page open and look up the words you don't know. It gets easier once you lean the lingo. Start with review papers, as they usually give a pretty good overview that is less technical.

These may not have an answer for you, as every injury is different, but it may help give you more understanding of what we know on the topic. The scholar search below should help get you started. Shoot me a message if you want. 

https://scholar.google.com/scholar?hl=en&as_sdt=0%2C5&q=female+spinal+cord+injury+sex&btnG=First time having sex after SCI,It took me a coupe of years and overcoming some mental road blocks of my own but I got back to having regular orgasms. I (F) think it's mostly in your mind. You have to find that new sensation that's associated with intimacy and then learn how to cultivate it. Which actions increase it and re-learn how to build arousal with your partner. You still have all the connections (vagus nerve) that you need. I wish they had told me that out of the hospital. Good luck and have fun!,"You have to find that new sensation that's associated with intimacy and then learn how to cultivate it"-- that's a really amazing way to put it and something I'm going to discuss with future patients.First time having sex after SCI,I was injured 23 years ago in 1997 when I was 14. I was also born visually impaired on top of that. fun stuff right? My first time having sex post-injury was my first time having sex at all. I mean at the time I had a hand job and one time a girl licked it in the game of truth or dare.
 
It was interesting to me how my brain adapted to the lack of sensation. Even though the sensation wasn't really there my brain kind of filled in the gaps. It's still like that to this day as long as I can see what's being done. If it's in an area where my sensation is Limited or completely gone. It's similar to the sensations I get when I try to move my hands. I can attempt to give someone the middle finger I feel it move but it doesn't. Unfortunately, the girl who I lost my virginity to ended up being kinda crazy. I that's the completely other story

My body is also adapted by being Ultra sensitive in certain areas where I can feel I most. Like my neck and my ears can be super sensitive at times. They definitely were not like that before. I've also found that things that vibrate are also fun. I don't stick them in anywhere but topically there very nice. Also, do something guys can trying to get a chance. Have your partner hum or moan with you in there mouth. For me at least it gives a nice body sensation. Especially if you know they're having fun. I've always been a giver personally. Getting the person I with to orgasm definitely get me there.

I've seen quite a few injured newbies on the sub who are understandably depressed post-injury. I understand I was there for a bit. But you need to try to look at what you can do now and move forward. I'm done kinds of things and met people I don't think I would have ever had the opportunities to do if I hadn't been injured. I wouldn't want trade any of these experiences or people for much of anything. 

My regrets at the age I am now is mostly not doing more that I could have done. Now that I'm starting to have issues with atrophy, back issues, and the aches and pains of just getting older. 

Try to look past what you lost I'm trying to see what you have, gained or what you could gain. Find something you love doing and find a way to do it . It's mostly all about perspective. I'm open for messages if anybody wants to chat.

Forgive any typos I'm trying to use voice recognition on my phone.First time having sex after SCI,As an C6-7 (M) can only have orgasm by ear licking.Some partners can't take it there,but when it happens is really great!,Hahaha! Excellent!First time having sex after SCI,It’s a tough thing - some women can, some can’t orgasm after injury but most I know are able with practice and exploration to find a different sort of climax. A key for many women is exploring sensations around other areas - mouth, nipples, fingers, etc. Your partner sounds like a good person to try some experimenting with - what if you both try sex without penetration? Once he realizes you are enjoying yourself too he could unlearn that expectation about needing to be able to give you an orgasm in the traditional way. For what it’s worth I helped create this sexual health resource for people with SCI, maybe you’ll find it helpful? Www.scisexualhealth.ca
There’s also a good group on fb called women with SCI/D you could join to ask other women.,**I found links in your comment that were not hyperlinked:**

* [Www.scisexualhealth.ca](https://Www.scisexualhealth.ca)

*I did the honors for you.*

***

^[delete](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fu%2FLinkifyBot&subject=delete%20g0c8oe8&message=Click%20the%20send%20button%20to%20delete%20the%20false%20positive.) ^| ^[information](https://np.reddit.com/u/LinkifyBot/comments/gkkf7p) ^| ^<3First time having sex after SCI,(M) You can definitely Cum after SCI, I’ve have my problems and doubts about sexuality after SCI, until finally had sex and don’t feel the penetration, made Cum my partner several times giving her orals. When everything ended I decided to masturbate myself while she touches me, kisses, etc, well I ended up cumming all over my sheets. Had to wash it next day. But yeah you can defenitly Cum just in the same way you do it  before SCI, it would take you some practice because the loss of sense but definitely you can cum.,What level?First time having sex after SCI,I can’t say specifically what could help, but my bf (c6-c7 incomplete) hasn’t been able to orgasm in the 3 years we’ve been together. Today for the second time this week we’ve had success and we realized all it boiled down to (so far) has been positioning. We tried doggy style using a triangle pillow where he sits on his knees with the triangle pillow supporting his butt and it worked, when we tried again it wasn’t working till he spread his legs a little more and success! We’re thinking that spreading his legs even helped him keep it up.

The first time his AD gave him a “wake up in the middle of night bc you had to pee for over 30 minutes”-type of pounding headache for the hours following but this time he got AD for like half a second and then he came.

Use your imagination, fantasize, and experiment- had we tried new things more often, it probably would’ve happened sooner!First time having sex after SCI,Im a 35y old male T5 going on 16 years post injury. Spent the first 8 not knowing how to orgasm or ejaculate. Researching and asking questions on forums like this is how I finally figured it out so your on the right track. 

I did come across this article recently. https://medium.com/@enagoski/how-to-orgasm-with-spinal-cord-injury-d8a3ddcac3e0 

As sex after SCI and sex with disability in general has become a fascination of mine lol. The other thing is they make a female version of the ferticare vibrator now. It’s a super strong medical grade vibrator that you need a prescription for. 


https://medicalvibrator.com/product/ferticare-2-0-female/

No idea how well it works  may be worth doing research first. Me myself I use I Tens unit to orgasm/ejaculate. No idea if this works for women or not.First time having sex after SCI,I was injured at 21 (female, T11 complete) and am so amazed at how well you’ve handled this first time back in the sack! 

In my experience my sensation down there can vary quite a bit day to day. So maybe next time y’all try you’ll have more sensation or maybe even less. I also describe my injury as it’s like my lower half used to speak at full volume and since injury it can only whisper to my brain. It’s not totally mute, but it did take me a while to learn how to listen to it better. And if I am busy/stressed/distracted it’s easy for me to miss the subtle cues my body gives me. 

With that in mind here are some things that have helped me and my now husband get across the finish line. 
1. Vibrator is good to kind of help you get that proprioception of where your vag is 
2. Playing with his member in my hands or mouth gets me going while he simultaneously is doing the same for me. 
3. Weed increases my sensation, alcohol decreases it
4. My pelvis likes to be fickle and what feels *amazing* one second suddenly feels like nothing the next, so I communicate that and we change angle/speed/position etc. 
5. I help him help me. Don’t be afraid to use your hands and stimulate yourself. It’s also hot for him to see you enjoying yourself. 

Happy humping!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I wanted to share some pictures of my visit to the Niagara Falls whirlpool jet boat! My boyfriend (paralyze below the waste) found a way to make my birthday special during this pandemic! The staff was very helpful for this slightly awkward transfer, I definitely recommend this boat tour! 😀,THAT'S cool! I've got to do this. Thanks for posting.I wanted to share some pictures of my visit to the Niagara Falls whirlpool jet boat! My boyfriend (paralyze below the waste) found a way to make my birthday special during this pandemic! The staff was very helpful for this slightly awkward transfer, I definitely recommend this boat tour! 😀,Happy birthday!   🎁🎉🎊🎂. Great that you’re both getting out together and enjoying life.,Thank you so much for the birthday wish!! It is nice to enjoy life!! I’m happy more things are opening up now :D I hope the COVID numbers stay low and more things open up :)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
UPDATE: my boyfriend who did Ubereats in his wheelchair for charity Made it on CTV ... I couldn’t be more proud of his crazy ideas 😊 “I can get around pretty quickly': Toronto courier who uses wheelchair looks to challenge misconceptions”,That's awesome!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Do you experience spasms when trying dmt?,I tried shrooms for the first time a couple weeks ago since my injury last year. I only took half an eighth and I didn’t experience an increase in spasms.,Each injury is different, the spasms take some time to appear and I have been 3 years since my accident and the spasms have evolved over time.  look for spinal shock I think that's what it's called.Do you experience spasms when trying dmt?,Shrooms I sometimes get a bit more, Acid I definitely do, its like waves of every muscle firing. I've done DMT 50+ times and never had any spasm issues.Do you experience spasms when trying dmt?,Yes, LSD, Shrooms, DMT, Ketamine, MDMA gives me spasms every time, hard fucking spasms, it's kinda nice though in the beginning though, I always know that when the spasms arrives the drugs effect is soon kicking in, like within 5 minutes :p,And whit Dmt, the spasms last longer? Or just at the time while tripping?Do you experience spasms when trying dmt?,Shrooms lit my muscles up in my legs and abdomen like a Christmas tree and I didn't even take that much. It was alarming so I stopped where I was at. All I took was three capsules worth.,It depends on each injury, it happens to me just like you, my legs do not stop moving but at comedown they calm down and return to normal in a few hours.  sadly I can't trip while in my chair, I can only do it lying down due to spasms still fun though. I F*ckin trip balls last time on 200ug.Do you experience spasms when trying dmt?,nowadays I stick to weed, which calms my spasms. 

did you try it? report back,Haven’t tried, but I think it would provoke me spams just like any other psychedelics I’ve tried.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Game ideas to play with a quadriplegic person,Codenames is simple enough yet really fun,She loves this game! Great idea! Thank you!Game ideas to play with a quadriplegic person,Many board games use cards (properties in monopoly, territory cards in Risk, etc.), which can be difficult for a quad to hold, see, or memorize. I highly recommend purchasing something similar to [this Playing Card Holder](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000TYO1XO). It is large enough to accommodate an entire handful of cards, and it's transparency allows for viewing even the lower part of the cards.Game ideas to play with a quadriplegic person,I (C4 incomplete) love exploding kittens, euchre, chessPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Relationships C3 complete,I'm c6/c7 and I know every injury is different. Never though I'm gonna look at someone's finger's pinch strrgnth and think man I wish I had that. With c3 I can imagine what a warrior you should be to handle all challenges. That's kinda how I look at my situation 2 and a half years in. We wake up and go to war every day battling pain, mental illness and list of 10000 other things we have to deal with. I've started relationships with my gf right after my accident and to be honest right now looking to break up. I never though that people should begin relationships to be happy. First we have to try to find things we enjoy by ourselves, new hobbys, like with c3 I'd say audio books, learning new topics that can sparkle your imagination, cosmology, neuroscience, if you breath independently I highly recommend you learning more about breathing techniques. Once you do all that and keep yourself on scedule and busy it might get a bit easier to deal with the situation. Very important for us to look forward to doing things on scedule every day, and I know being 3 levels lower injury I can't imagine how hard it is for you. I've seen people on YouTube with high level of injuries in relationships so that's possible but personally I think if it happens it happens if not you should sit down and think what can you do to have some enjoyment in life by yourself. Remember with injury or not life is very short and as visitors on this planet we should try to expirience what we can, what our physical body and mental state allows us. Sometimes k listen to music and think to myself man it'sgood I can still hear. Btw 1 hour music session when you do nothing else but enjoy it is another thing you can still enjoy in sessions every evening,  I don't wanna sound too optimistic or positive, because I feel miserable several times a day, and that's also ok, it's just normal in our situation.  I hate this guys who say oh my injury opened up this whole new things I can do now. What a bunch of sick people who act like injury added something to their lifestyle. I saw a guy on youtube who could literally get up walk around, lift his own wheelchair talking about how he does wheelchair transfer in the bathroom. Please don't watch all this maniacs and think they are happy with sci and I'm miserable must be something is wrong with me. So I guess just go with the flow try to keep yourself busy and don't wait for somebody to appear and love you, you know you can love yourself and do things that are enjoyable by yourself. If you meet someone who'd choose to be with you that's great. I know it's shitty cards we've been delt with but what can we do that's part of the game. I hope there's at least something positive in this rambling;)Relationships C3 complete,I am a t10 complete and what I do know definitely will in no way correlate for you. But I hope you get some takeaways from this. 

I too used to run behind relationship and hoped against hopes that someone would love me. Someone did, but I got horribly cheated upon and she made me penniless. I barely got out of it and I got another wonderful woman in my life, but I messed it up, cuz I wasn't ready to accommodate time for her. We broke up. This period of lockdown taught me a lot, how wrong I am, that I only grew old but did not grow up. And that I need to find happiness within to attract anyone with same thoughts process. Where I am getting to is, find happiness. It's really a tough ask. And it cannot be done day in and day out. But that's why routine comes in and helps us. Cuz with routines /schedule we can attach small wins which gives us small happiness. And when we are happy from within, we will also attract a partner for the person we are.

The ex, yes she troubles my thoughts at times. I feel helpless too. But it's something that I have recognized and now she gets lesser and lesser Mindspace. Cuz I have a schedule where I don't have time to think astray thoughts. And music is my go to therapy so I can relax.

It's a thought that my ex fed into my head that I will not get anyone. But I did, and somehow I ended up sabotaging it. So don't you worry, you will get into a relationship and you will find someone. Just make sure when you do, you are happy from within. And content with yourself.Relationships C3 complete,I am a T-6 incomplete here, and while very different from your injury I believe the perspective is the same.

The first step to having a relationship with someone else is having a healthy relationship with yourself. Learn to be happy with how and who you are, be thankful for being alive, and focus on your recovery. One day at a time, life gets better and brighter. 

Once you have your happiness in order, and you can socialize and make relationships with others a relationship will happen. Again, focus on hobbies, things to keep your mind busy, and topics and ideas that could help you relate to others and form those relationships. 

To try and force a relationship is dangerous as you can become too reliant on them for your happiness and you can lose focus in taking care of yourself. 

A quote that has helped me significantly in this very difficult time (about 1.5years since injury for me) is, “if you live in the past you’re depressed, if you live in the future you’re anxious, learn to live in the moment we are in right now.” 

I have a relationship myself and I know plenty others with SCI that have healthy relationships as well. You are not worthless, and there is a match out there for you. 

Best of luck in the future, I’ll be keeping you in my prayers. Stay strong and keep fighting 🙌🏻Relationships C3 complete,I know it's very different, but I am T12 complete and very happy in a relationship despite all the challenges that come with wheelchair life, I have a friend who is also C3 and he is married and very happy. 
I think the most important thing is to accept yourself and surround yourself with positive people and try to do as much as you can, if you are happy in yourself you will attract the right person.,I just posted a very long comment trying to get to the same point and I think I've horribly failed. You did it in two sentences 👏Relationships C3 complete,There is someone for everyone. You may not be the fully functioning person you used to be but maybe now you’re an excellent listener or sounding board for someone who just wants to be with a kind person who’s supportive. I agree with the above statements to be yourself, be confident. Roll into the room with BDE. You will meet the right person for you. It usually happens when you’re not looking.Relationships C3 complete,C2 C5/6 incomplete, I have limited upper body mobility but not to the extent of zero arm function, as a lot of people have said down below - every injury is individual. 

But, that being said the self esteem thing is pretty common, and it might be worth trying to work to get that up - personally I found engaging in things I liked helped out massively with that. When your self esteem is higher, the injury becomes less of a barrier - like I needed to (and need to, ongoing work) to learn to value myself regardless of physical function and the more progress I make on this, the better things become.Relationships C3 complete,I'm a C4 complete. I met my wife 9 years after my accident. I had a few girlfriends after my accident too, but none of them worked out, thankfully. My best advice is that you can't depend on others for happiness. I promise that no relationship can work if you are unable to be happy with yourself. Accepting your situation is important and living life to your fullest is a great quality. Don't settle and don't feel sorry for yourself. Things will work out. Having the right attitude goes a long way.Relationships C3 complete,Okay so looks like I’m the first to write who is able bodied but I’m going to write something here from a reverse perspective. 

I am 31 and a year ago I was at a conference, I met a wholesome amazing guy with a beautiful smile. He was at a table to promote the spinal cord injury of Ontario. I couldn’t stop thinking about him do the next day I found him, exchanged Facebook and a month later we where dating :) 

I’m a PSW so somethings I knew, but there was A LOT I didn’t. And I’ll be blunt to by saying as a psw, I didn’t think I would date anyone in a wheelchair because I wanted work and social to be separate.

my boyfriend of almost a year C6/ T1 complete ... he makes his disability fun. I mean there of course is the chronic pain which is stressful and seeing him in pain kills me. But he lets me sit on him in his chair ... and makes hilarious jokes about his disability. Flops his feet over mine when we are in bed. 

I think his confidence and his way of not being offended by disability and humour helped ease me into this new way of life. Of course my life changed ... and sometimes it’s stressful, but him always staying positive helps. I know that can be hard sometimes, but it’s nice when it’s a horrible situation and you can both laugh.

Like this past New Years we where late for a magic show ... we got off the subway, and it wasn’t accessible :0 rather than wait for another subway I stood behind him (beer was involved in this decision) and we went up the escalator. Only to find a staircase!! Omg so we laughed and I finally got us through the gate (I wasn’t wide enough for a chair so I had to really push) and then a random couple helped us carry him up the staircase while my boyfriend pulled on railing to help.

It could have been stressful but we laughed the whole time. 

Your disability is definitely a new life, it doesn’t have to define who you are ... it is apart of you, but not who you are. So make that life still fun and adventurous! And when something gets you down just laugh about it, turn it into a joke and make life just fun! 

Hope this helps, and it has helped my relationship 100%Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Is anyone else getting pissed of at all these people misusing the ADA so they don't have to wear a mask?,It makes me absolutely livid. My husband is C5/C6 incomplete so his SCI affects his lung function and makes him susceptible to respiratory infections. These people don't give one single fuck if their actions kill people. They're just being completely selfish and have no clue what the ADA says or who it's supposed to protect.

I'm sorry you had to deal with that asshole. What was the conclusion of that encounter?,I pointed out that the ADA calls for reasonable accommodations and that we met those standards. He got mad and told me he wasn't going to argue with me and stormed off inside the store.Is anyone else getting pissed of at all these people misusing the ADA so they don't have to wear a mask?,Agree! I'm so disgusted by people who are saying, " I can't use a mask I have a medical condition" now I don't know if that's true or not, I'm leaning toward it's not. However, I too have a medical condition (T-4 incomplete) and if my van is broken down then I'm not going to the store. I'm not going anywhere (driving distance) and unfortunately someone else has to help me. Why can't these people with this medical condition that stops them from wearing a mask get someone else to do their shopping?  It's not that serious to them. 

Im sure that they can wear a mask, they just don't want to. And it is because they are selfish and don't care about anyone else. Kudos to you for still working. Sorry about the ADA asshole, some people are just assholes.Is anyone else getting pissed of at all these people misusing the ADA so they don't have to wear a mask?,Given the extreme rarity of disability that prevents people from wearing a mask it’s not unreasonable for people to carry a doctors note.Is anyone else getting pissed of at all these people misusing the ADA so they don't have to wear a mask?,It's angering, yes.

I think it's kind of funny that they argue the ADA / HIPAA with a person who clearly knows what it's about.Is anyone else getting pissed of at all these people misusing the ADA so they don't have to wear a mask?,Yes!  According to the CDC, there are 3 cases that prevent people from wearing masks: 

1.) Children under 2

2.) Difficulty breathing

3.) Basically be unconscious

All 3 of these do not require an MD to diagnose... #2 could be argued, but it's pretty damn obvious when a person has trouble breathing.  I've heard so many excuses for the "medical" reasons for people not wearing a mask. I'm not buying their shit, and I'd thank them to not bastardize the ADA to fit your selfish, oft politically driven, narrative. Wear a damn mask.Is anyone else getting pissed of at all these people misusing the ADA so they don't have to wear a mask?,The ADA was written with infectious disease (HIV) in mind, which was one of its most controversial parts. It offered protections against discrimination for HIV people working in food service, because you can't get HIV like that. But it does not obligate businesses to make exceptions for either customers or employees who are actually potentially infectious (pretty much all of us at the moment).Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Dr. Al Emondi, from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), discussing Non-Surgical Brain-Computer Interfaces,I guess you need a very, very good EEG for that to begin with.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
My amazing boyfriend is raising money for the Spinal Cord Injury of Ontario. He found an innovative way to raise donations by doing Ubereats in his wheelchair!,Love this, man! Stay cool and hydrated.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I have two questions about complete SCI Injuries.,I feel you mann... In the same boat. I am a t10 complete for 10yrs and over the years there have been many claims from the so called stem cell treatment but it doesn't work and sensation aren't regained. Still a lot of research is happening on this. But none that worked. As for the penis size, I would say try viagra or tadalaphil based tablet. Used for erectile dysfunction. Consult a physician before or pharmacist. I personally feel after accident, I don't get full erection as I used to before the accident. Tablets did well. But something felt empty deep inside. I have the same self conscious. Also in my head orgasm is being able to ejaculate. And I am unable to, so. 

When you get into a relationship you will have to find your erogenous areas. There's more to coitus than penetration they say. Non penetrative did help me to its max but not the climax feel.,Thank you for all the tips you gave and replying so fast.I have two questions about complete SCI Injuries.,Weird, got injured younger than you and my penis grew normally, have you consulted a doctor? I also have a complete injury.I have two questions about complete SCI Injuries.,
Nope, there are no cures for SCI. There are various efforts to cure SCI but most funding goes to care. 

You dick is like any part of your body, if you don't use it it atrophies. I was injured when I was 40 and mine is noticably smaller 11 years later. It doesn't work so I don't care, but if you do get a penis pump. It possible insurance will even pay for it. 

If you get lucky enough to get laid get the injection, don't waste money on pills.,Thank you for the fast response and the tips.I have two questions about complete SCI Injuries.,I have not consulted a doctor yet.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
New Carer looking to hear your story..,Hi,

My boyfriend is an incomplete C6 (motorcycle accident) and was actually at shepherd until early June. In fact, he was first diagnosed as complete but later determined incomplete. He first arrived in early March barely able to move his arms. Some great things that have happened is that the drs. there were very helpful in finding the right pain & spams meds. In fact, he was able to stop using the Percocet completely by the time he left. Also, definitely take advantage of the assistive technology resources they have! There are a bunch of mobile apps they have than can help replace remotes. 

In terms of improvements, in early March he was bedridden, by late March he was transitioning into an electric wheelchair and by mid-May he is in a manual wheelchair. He has gained a lot of core strength and can transfer using a board w/ some assistance. His hands have opened up and he is able to grasp somewhat and use his thumb decently. It's almost 6 months post injury and progress can seem slow but slow progress is still progress. He sometimes has some feeling in his toes and left leg so we are hoping for even more of a recovery! 

Shepherd is a great place to be at for SCI and wish you all the best.,Wow! Thank you so much for responding.. It’s like reading my own story about. Also with the left leg and the toes, it’s just crazy. Question for you, is he home now? How do you emotionally deal with his caregiver/ assuming he has one? And how long (assuming he has a caregiver) are they with you each day? See, we have 3 kids and I’m just not excited about bringing in a outsider/ but this isn’t about me I keep telling myself..New Carer looking to hear your story..,Hi! I’m 25 and a T7, I was injured in an automobile accident last year. My recovery has had ups and downs especially due to quarantine, but overall I’ve made significant improvements. 

While in rehab from November to January I went from being unable to sit-up to being able to transfer without assistance and able to do other small things like turn myself in bed. 
When I returned home I began strengthening those things and can now crawl and balance pretty when reaching, although there’s still a long way to go. 

I definitely still struggle with pain and weakness, but I’ve been using different methods to help with those kind of things.

It’s a long journey and everybody is different. I find the most difficult thing to deal with is even while I make improvements, it feels so slow and minor sometimes, so I have to remind myself where I started. I’m currently unable to work and school was too difficult for me, in regards to stamina, but I’m improving myself and caring for my daughter and just going day by day. 

I wish both of you luck on this journey and feel free to continue reaching out. :)New Carer looking to hear your story..,Hi, T10 complete. Became a para 10 yrs ago in a road traffic accident. Went to rehab, 1 month after the surgery. My mum came along with me during the 3 month rehab stint. What I would definitely say is, develop a schedule in rehab. Work with therapists and understand the schedule that works best. And see how it can be integrated into your husband's work schedule. The 3 months I spent in rehab, I learnt to make sure the first thing I do every day without fail is my morning chores aka DE, bathing. I do it everyday, and I use suppository daily for it keeps me free from any worry of a bad stomach at any point during later part of the day. I developed a schedule to pee, this now has helped me realize how much fluid I can take until I will not have a leak. I do forget sometimes, but majority times I can be worry free. These 2 aspects are critical for me to keep a proper outdoor lifestyle balance too. Go to pubs, disc's, concerts, shows. I also learnt not to hesitate when I need help. And be ready with spare set of diapers if traveling anywhere.

Where I am getting to is, in my opinion developing a schedule has helped me a lot. I also made sure I develop enough upper body strength in rehab cuz when I get to my daily life, I will not be able to devote time for that. I work full time, clocking upwards of 9hrs every day, as an IT consultant. I also take off from work for any peer mentoring sessions or helps / testing out new beta versions of custom wheelchairs being developed in my country. It doesn't have insurance through which we can buy good wheelchair. It's an out of pocket expense, and the best ones are available abroad and cost a bomb. I also did some fashion shows in between.

I am gifted to have a huge and strong support system in my friends, family and work. Work cuz i had my position available when I joined back at work. Friends, cuz one or the other made sure to drop a call every weekend during my stint at rehab. Family and extended family for the kept pushing me to do better. In rehab, fortunately I also had my mentor (T5 complete for 30yrs now) admitted around the same time, next room, for a different issue. I would speak to him almost every other day to understand how life will be when I get back to work. And I had decided then itself, I will not waste my energy trying to walk. Spending time and energy on something that will not come will exhaust me from spending that time and energy elsewhere. This was, in my opinion choice which helped me grow in my career relatively fast and also live a fuller life. I had my goal for rehab clear, be an efficient chair user.

Post my surgery when I reached rehab and got to know I will never walk, I didn't exactly process it properly. Or I processed it and didn't affect me much. Emotionally I was ok. Mentally I accepted and just lived on. It took 10 yrs for me to realize that I have only grown old not grown up. And that's why it didn't affect me. 

My proposal to the love of my life, fixing the date of marriage and then getting cheated upon and dumped shattered me and made me penniless, 2years ago. Another broken relationship 4 months back taught me I was not ready yet for a new one. Cuz I still had not grown up. And this lockdown has just taught me these things. Now I have realized that I am really short tempered. I scream at my folks if things are not done as I want and sort of have OCD (I think). I have started to meditate now, hopefully I resolve my anger issues. What I am getting to is, with life altering event like Spinal cord injury, something changes at the core of a person. And until the person realizes it, he or she would run in auto pilot mode. Some will be visible, some invisible. And no one can find it unless the person makes an effort. 

PS: doctor who, the new series which started in 2005 changed and taught me life lessons, that I should have learnt or known in my younger days. And talks by Jordan Peterson have helped me learn that life is full of suffering. It is how I find happiness in those suffering and rise above it to lead a balanced life that is important.New Carer looking to hear your story..,https://www.facebook.com/groups/sciownersclub/?ref=share

This is a good group of people with I guess probably hundreds if not thousands of years of SCI experience. Good place to scroll through and ask questions.

This is the USA equivalent.

https://www.facebook.com/groups/SCPSUSA/?ref=share

Good luck, it’s a difficult journey but celebrate all the positives no matter how small and do your best to laugh off the negatives. If you don’t then it will grind you both down.
👍😘,Thank you! I’ll definitely look into them.New Carer looking to hear your story..,Hi, I’m a personal assistant and have been working for people with SCI for a year. One resource that I found helpful was the Attitude YouTube channel and website. It’s mostly people from NZ and Australia and there is a playlist if people with various levels of spinal cord injuries talking about their experiences. Maybe it might be useful for you? All the best for you and your partner 😊Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Anyone use abdominal binders?,For maybe six months in the beginning when I first got home from rehab. The fiancé liked that it kept my belly from bulging out. It feels kind of comforting but I also used to think Kevlar bodyarmor felt comforting all day. It doesn’t feel that bad and it does also help support your internal organs (and your weak ass diaphragm). Mainly, we got tired of the daily ritual of putting it on and occasionally it would slip out of place causing a pinched piece of skin that I wasn’t aware of until there was a sore at the end of the day. Now I don’t use them at all but I can see a place for them again for special occasions such as a wedding reception or something but not just for daily use.,Cool, thanks for telling me - and yeah, its about support and posture for me mostly because my posture is just terrible following my injury. Organ support doesn't sound bad either, I hear it can improve your cough? That deep pressure thing with like the Kevlar, I really like that as well so cool.

I'll watch out for it slipping though, that could be a problem.,Can you provide a link to the one you used?Anyone use abdominal binders?,Hey, sorry I’m a little late to the party on this, but I actually use this back brace, and its worked great:

https://www.healthproductsforyou.com/p-hely-weber-lei-back-brace.html?gclid=Cj0KCQjw4f35BRDBARIsAPePBHy7uGmKB3uAwmv7ees2CUMZUBGXPVd0AzvqBMHUhsvan8R7ZmHSZl8aAsSKEALw_wcB

I’m a c6/7 quad with no movement below the chest, but even with only one pec muscle working, about 2-3/5 tricep function, and no hand function outside of tenodesis, with practice I’ve been able to learn to put it on by myself (Though it’s definitely easier when wearing my gripping gloves; I use gloves4life); but I notice a huge difference, I don’t slouch near as much while wearing it.

It’s completely soft, so no pinching, and the double bind really helps to get a good fit. The pad in the back also helps with spinal posture a bit, too. There are some spring supports on the sides which keep it from folding over on itself which have popped out before, but I just had someone pop em back in and reinforce the stitching and I haven’t had a problem again; otherwise going on two years strong, even with the occasional wash.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
The Perfect Step Claremont, California,This is my place. Everyone here are exceptional in knowledge and spirit. They take very good care of you and your progress knows no bounds here. If your in So Cal at all check them out ( when things open up again)The Perfect Step Claremont, California,Heyo! I'm in Santa Clara!! ❤️,I’m on the West Coast! I spent a month in Riverside and did therapy in Claremont! Great Experience, first trip post injury traveling/flying aloneThe Perfect Step Claremont, California,Just found out TPS is closing as it’s host building, The Claremont Club is forced to permanently close due to the pandemic closure. I’m confident another building will be located strictly for TPS in the future so please check up on them as they provide such a valuable therapy for SCI and related clients. Stay busy, workout and this will end before you know it. Best to all.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
How do quads care for their dog?,Where abouts to do you live? If it’s in Ontario or British Columbia you should check out direct funding if you aren’t already on it. It’s self directed attendant care, you can hire whom ever you choose and spread your care throughout the day in small increments. 
Then your dog can be taken care of during these times. You might not be able to walk your do every time but at least you can enjoy it’s company.
When you do have a worker get them to walk your dog while you’re doing something else, like eating or something you usually can do on your own or even when the laundry is being done. This will optimize your time with your dog and be efficient when you have a worker.
You can use the worker for this, the worker can take your dog out and he can do his business... the after you can go out with your dog on your own without having to worry about picking anything up. Hope this helps :),I am not in Canada. I think for the trouble, cats may be the best for me. Which is fine. Cats are hilarious and sweet too.How do quads care for their dog?,May I ask where you live? I’m not sure why I thought Canada. The Uk has direct funding too. That’s where self directed care started. Dogs are amazing though. The reason I wrote all of that is I myself am a PSW for people on direct funding and that’s how they take care of their dogs.,Cool! I live in the USA - California area. I have not done any research what government assistance is available. I am not on any welfare system myself. I’m a regular dude with a job and bills as far as the government knows.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Home Health,Get in touch with Vocational Rehab or Department for Aging and Independent living. They might be able to help.,Late to the party, but what this guy said.

The office of vocational rehab has helped me tremendously. They’re a state program designed to help get/keep disabled individuals working. Paying for home health to get ready for work is still a lot cheaper for the state than having to pay you benefits; you should be able to get help there.Home Health,Private pay, most likely. Your primary physician should be helping you with decisions like this. They’re going to know of programs and who administrates them. For instance, my local hospital has a complex case management team which is a social worker and a nurse that helps navigates problems like this. I was in a similar situation as you except that I was on SSDI, which has its benefits. Eventually my dad was going to die and I needed to reassure him that we had a plan in place for the moment that happened. I would’ve been lost without them.Home Health,https://hhs.texas.gov/services/health/medicaid-chip/programs-services/children-adults-disabilities/medicaid-buy-adults

Consider something like a Medicaid buy-in. It is income limited though.,I agree with this, I came here to recommend it.  In many states, they are allowing you to buy into Medicaid if your salary is as high as $100k.  The buy-in can bridge the gap between disqualifying for Medicaid (I think it's something like $15-$25k/year) and being able to afford it yourself.

&#x200B;

If you are on Medicaid, you can either work with an agency or get a consumer directed services account (my preferred method).  It looks like Texas has this:

[https://hhs.texas.gov/doing-business-hhs/provider-portals/long-term-care-providers/consumer-directed-services-cds](https://hhs.texas.gov/doing-business-hhs/provider-portals/long-term-care-providers/consumer-directed-services-cds)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Check ups?,I would suggest finding a general practicitioner/family physician first and then ask for a referral to appropriate specialists (neurologist, etc.).,ThanksCheck ups?,You might also look at whatever hospital treats inpatient spinal cord injury and see if they have an outpatient program. I see a Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (PM&R) physician, (also called physiatrist) at a big rehab hospital near me. They have helped me adjust my medications and wrote the prescription for my wheelchair and anything else SCI related.,Thanks!Check ups?,Hey, I’m from Ireland too, and weirdly a L1 incomplete but from different reasons then yours. The only way you’ll get to see a consultant is by referral from your GP. Not sure where in the country you are but Beaumont hospital is the place to be imo..specialises in all things neurological..the NRH is the rehab centre and depending on your needs you might be referred there for further assistance (they are amazing!) if you’re a public patient you could be waiting 3 months for an appointment but if you’re private you’ll get an app pretty quickly. Hit me if you need any other advise. Worth checking out Spinal Injuries Ireland webpage too, they lots of info for SCI too!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Husbands MRI. T12 burst, injury L1. Walking with a cane, still missing sacral.,He's very lucky to be able to walk after that injury.,His MRI report says a complete sever of the spinal cord, however he could walk a month and a half post injury. Doctors are baffled.,For real! Spinal cord looks almost severedHusbands MRI. T12 burst, injury L1. Walking with a cane, still missing sacral.,Damn. I had a an T11-L3 injury and don't walk great sixteen months later. I didn't even look this bad. Lucky husband. I mean, as lucky as any of us is.,Would be so curious to see!

He is lucky, we count our lucky stars every day. 

He has an L1 injury, but is classified as an L3.Husbands MRI. T12 burst, injury L1. Walking with a cane, still missing sacral.,Penis 😃

On another note, check out "care cure forums " for a larger community of broke backs,😃

On another note, check out "care cure forums " for a larger community of broke backs,Yep, there’s a penisHusbands MRI. T12 burst, injury L1. Walking with a cane, still missing sacral.,I have a similar injury, and feel similarly lucky. Wishing your husband all the best.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
How many of you are in chronic pain? Do you still enjoy life?,I have a condition only doctors or people that have it would recognize, mine is from an accident.

Finding the right dose of neurological meds (lyrica or neurotonin) helped me a lot.

I manage my pain with medical THC, it works well. Sometimes I reach for my pain meds but it’s a huge difference. I’d be on them every day if not for it.,I am thinking about medical THC. I just don’t like the feeling of being high- it makes me anxious. Maybe with the right strain..How many of you are in chronic pain? Do you still enjoy life?,I get a lot of neuropathic pain in my right leg from my injury. Pain meds and other treatments have not been able to help. In the next month I should be trying a spinal cord stimulator implant and I have high hopes for that. The pain is often pretty unbearable and leaves me bed bound many days. 

I'm sorry you're in so much pain! I hope you can find something that helps. Try to get a good pain doctor, and if one isn't working for you try a different one. I'm on my second pain doctor now and I'm really glad I switched. The last one just had treatments that weren't helping my pain. 

Good luck. Stay strong.,Good luck with the stimulator. It's definitely an odd feeling.,Hey thanks- I hope the stimulator works. I know many have had good success!How many of you are in chronic pain? Do you still enjoy life?,I don’t know how to enjoy life in this condition, idk what fun is anymore and it’s only a matter of time til I call it quits,How long have you had a SCI?How many of you are in chronic pain? Do you still enjoy life?,I had bad nerve pain at first, for the first 2 or so years. once I was otherwise ready to go back to school (I was 16) I still missed more school than I attended because of my nerve pain. I found the right combo of meds to be able to function, so I graduated from high school and went to college. I was on lyrica 150 mg 3x/day and that worked pretty well. I still have pain now but i’m off all the meds. 

even though I have pain all the time i’m glad to be here, as long as I keep myself busy and focus on having a good future the pain isn’t as distressing. I still have pain but it’s not as emotionally taxing to live with.How many of you are in chronic pain? Do you still enjoy life?,I have rather chronic pain but I'm able to live with it. Mine didn't really develop until after my second spinal surgery fix a syrinx. I tried Lyrica and the others but it made me really spacey so I stopped so if it. After a while I am just able to live with it and it only cause a problem if I try to lay on my back. One thing I've found that helps is a heating pad, i use one at night to sooth nerve pain while i sleep.,Thanks, that has helped me as well in the past but I quit using it. I found magnesium Theronate helps me to sleep. I guess it can be something you just eventually get used to in a way.How many of you are in chronic pain? Do you still enjoy life?,I have a C-level SCI, 2 lesions and it causes chronic pain (mixture of nerve pain and muscular pain from spasticty). I've been on really intense pain meds before, including most variants of nerve pain meds but am now getting by on the highest dose of cocodamol I can get in my country. It's an opioid sure, but its not morphine or fentanyl.

I do enjoy life, when I can access things I function very well, and engage in sports as well as various other hobby acivties and am a very busy arts freelancer/access auditor. I don't find my pain majorly impacts my well being most days, its just something I had to get used to.,Thanks for the motivation!! I hope you continue to enjoy your life.How many of you are in chronic pain? Do you still enjoy life?,It’s tough to manage. For me it’s seems the harder I push in PT the worse the pain is the next couple of days but mentally the gains outweigh the pain. Antispasm meds seem to have either reached the tolerance level or the negative side effects keep me from using some of them. Plenty of rest, hydration and BCAA or other muscle soothing protein help.,Worried about doing PT because I have nerve damage. Glad to hear it helps mentally for you. I’ll look into the bcaasHow many of you are in chronic pain? Do you still enjoy life?,I have bad neuropathy from an incomplete L1 injury 13 years ago. I have good days and bad. I take gabapentin which helps but I get nothing for the extreme breakthrough pain I often get, I honestly feel abandoned by my pain doctor.,It’s crazy that pain doctors can’t/won’t properly treat pain. I have cymbalta but don’t want to deal with the side effects. Have you tried LDN?How many of you are in chronic pain? Do you still enjoy life?,C4 complete with chronic pain here. Some days are better than others, but overall if I could use one of my arms to take something or I could find someone to help me without them risking going to jail, I would already be gone.,Sorry- it’s really rough. I am only 3-4 months into this and I’ve already had a enough. Hang in there though, probably doesn’t mean much but message me whenever.How many of you are in chronic pain? Do you still enjoy life?,I take neurontin and that seems to be the only thing that helps. I was on methadone but decided to ween off of it (it took a year). Methadone made me too foggy and forgetful. I decided being a lot more lucid and in pain was better than being drugged up or passed out.

I've tried tons of different opioids and even had a spinal cord pain stimulator implanted then later removed because it didn't work.

The pain gets to me emotionally from time to time and slows down my life even more than the wheelchair does. I enjoy life as best I can. 

Does the pain depress me? Of course but I just try to pick up and move forward.,Have you tried low dose naltrexone? I have had some success with it .How many of you are in chronic pain? Do you still enjoy life?,It’s amino acid to help muscle recovery. All the nutrition shops sell them. Good luckHow many of you are in chronic pain? Do you still enjoy life?,I have been living with the pain for 10 yrs now. T10 complete here. And I opted to not take any medications. Decided to live with it. I do some push ups on my wheelchair to relieve the pain, if the pain comes while sitting(lift myself up pressing against the wheels). Nowadays I found a new trick which seems to work. If I get pain on the right side, I move my right abdomen muscles, giving the false impression about body movements. Which reduces the pain much sooner. While earlier, I just used stop breathing for 30 seconds or sitting push-ups to divert the attention from neuro pain.How many of you are in chronic pain? Do you still enjoy life?,when I had my wreck I landed on my left arm and bc of it I have constant needle like nerve pain on top of hot/cold sensations in it all day. I take gabapentin and oxycodone but it never goes away. it impacts me so much and I’d be so much further in my recovery if it wasn’t a constant problemPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I participated in a disability film challenge and made a short documentary about the history of spinal cord injuries in film,Nice job!I participated in a disability film challenge and made a short documentary about the history of spinal cord injuries in film,Good job!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Searching for a new/backup catheter,I'm a para, but have you looked at the hollister VaPro plus pocket? Foil packet with a loop to tear open, then simply remove the red cap and go ahead. All enclosed, as close to sterile as possible,Yep. Not a man, but for some reason I know that many male tetra friends of mine like the VaPro Plus ones as well.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
After a disabled Tesla user reached out to Elon Musk, Tesla will now install powered trunks for wheelchairusers at no cost.,I love Tesla’s features, hate that I’d have to live in it to be able to afford one.,$37k for Model 3 SR+ and the cost of operating is 5x less than a gas car. It’s cheaper over 10 years to drive than a Camry or Accord.After a disabled Tesla user reached out to Elon Musk, Tesla will now install powered trunks for wheelchairusers at no cost.,Now put a ramp in a Model X and I'll buy one.After a disabled Tesla user reached out to Elon Musk, Tesla will now install powered trunks for wheelchairusers at no cost.,I reached out a few times about a Model-X.  Wanting to know if the rear back seat on the drivers could be removed and my wheelchair placed there.  It would be close to perfect for me; but I never heard back.,Anything can be removed 1 time.  Whether you can put it back afterward is the question.   If you have the 4 or 6 seat config, it should be trivial to remove that seat.After a disabled Tesla user reached out to Elon Musk, Tesla will now install powered trunks for wheelchairusers at no cost.,What's a powers trunk?,A powered tail gate. One that has a motor to open and close itself. All Teslas but the model 3 have one. They’re now saying that individuals who otherwise wouldn’t be able to reach the trunk door when it’s opened can get one retrofitted on the model 3 free of charge it seems.After a disabled Tesla user reached out to Elon Musk, Tesla will now install powered trunks for wheelchairusers at no cost.,Trunk that uses power to open and close (standard on the S)After a disabled Tesla user reached out to Elon Musk, Tesla will now install powered trunks for wheelchairusers at no cost.,Pretty sure it's just for that guyAfter a disabled Tesla user reached out to Elon Musk, Tesla will now install powered trunks for wheelchairusers at no cost.,No one can honestly afford that,$37k for Model 3 SR+ and the cost of operating is 5x less than a gas car. It’s cheaper over 10 years to drive than a Camry or Accord. (Stolen from u/dcdttu )After a disabled Tesla user reached out to Elon Musk, Tesla will now install powered trunks for wheelchairusers at no cost.,Is there any wonder why the world loves Elon?,uhhh there’s a lot to wonder actuallyPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Share your recoveries.,Marcus, C-7 Incomplete, Fused from C-4 to T-3. Paralyzed chest down initially, movement slowly came back 2-3 months later. Went from Wheelchair to Walker, Walker to Forearm Crutch, Forearm Crutch to No Assistance over the course of 9 years. Even though I was able to walk without assistance, my walking for was very knock kneed until recently receiving very intense 2 hours a day therapy at The Perfect Step in Claremont California, where they re-taught me how to walk 9 years post injury. Now able to walk with no brace or walking assistance.,Thats seriously amazing. It must feel great, especially after such a long effort.Share your recoveries.,Broke C2, C5,C6. Fused C4-C7. Initially C5 Asia A, my injury is incomplete. Two weeks out Asia B, two months out Asia C. I'm currently 1yr post injury and am now Asia D. Couldn't move a thing from my shoulders down and now I can walk without any assistive devices. I'm so grateful and lucky. Love you guys.,Did your recovery slow down after a certain point? What could you do at 4 months? Im asking because thats where I am at now.Share your recoveries.,I am a T8 complete injured on 2009. In 2020 I am a T8 complete.,This got a laugh out of me, but even some initially complete injuries have the possibility to recover.Share your recoveries.,T1+T8 incomplete Asia C, Currently Asia D. At 3 months I could walk short distances with a walker but relied on a wheelchair mostly. I had to wear a diaper for bladder control. At 6 months I could walk longer distances with a walker and around the house and only used the wheelchair outside the home. Still needed a diaper. At 9 months I stopped using the wheelchair at all and relied on the walker alone outside the home with a cane inside. I could walk a mile with the walker and needed incontinence pads for my bladder. At 12 months I walked short distances outside the home with a cane and needed smaller incontinence pads. At 15 months I used the cane exclusively outside the home and walked unassisted inside. At 18 months I walked unassisted at all times except for very long distances. I’m currently using the lightest incontinence pads. My bowel situation is unchanged since day one and I require a bowel program every other day. The neuropathy and spasticity in my legs is unchanged from day one and I have continued stiffness and discomfort from my thighs down. I can feel pressure, cold, and “something’s wrong” in my legs but my ability to feel heat and pain is impaired.,That improvement is impressive. These injuries cause so many problems other than what is obvious at a glance, but walking is still my biggest goal and stories like these give me hope.Share your recoveries.,I can walk assisted with a walker for a short distance. I think mostly supporting my weight while standing is the problem.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Healing With Meditation?,my mom’s described doing something similar (not meditation but still) and credits it to fixing her scoliosisHealing With Meditation?,It sounds like biofeedback therapy to me. So basically what happens is this: when you have a spinal cord injury the paralyzed body parts atrophy over time. Sometimes the nerves might heal enough to begin moving the body part again but it’s so atrophied that your brain has sort of forgotten how to do it. With biofeedback and/or mediation you can retrain the brain to connect to these atrophied parts and start building them up a bit. But generally any gains are small. Christopher Reeve famously regained the ability to wiggle his fingers after extensive therapy, for example.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Botox injections in bladder,Botox is one of the best things for those of us with SCI. It’s drastically improved my quality of life.Botox injections in bladder,I know what that's like... I used to have to map out the bathrooms at a location before I got there, no time for risks lol. 

Botox is amazing for me. It usually lasts a long time for me, around 12-14 months. I do IC,The worst it when I go to sporting events. The bathrooms are always disgusting and I'm trying to cath with a million people waiting in line.

I had one bad day, on Saturday. I must have used a dozen catheters. Kept feeling the urge all day to go, every hour. Ends up making me irritated. I ordered hydrophilic catheters with a 12 FR size to try and help with that. I think it's getting better now, but I won't judge for another week or two.

The best thing is being able to sleep longer. Now I only wake up due to crippling anxiety!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
How has your view of / relationship with God changed since your injury?,I was atheist before and was atheist after. I dropped LSD 6 months ago and am now Daoist.,The Tao Te Ching is so beautiful. The way is the way in all its beauty and sorrow.How has your view of / relationship with God changed since your injury?,Pretty much the same, I’m somewhere between agnostic and a deist I guess. 

I did grow a distaste towards people accrediting God to any progress I made though while in the hospital/rehab system. I’d like to think that my efforts, in conjuncture with the doctors, got me to where I am. I use to not mind when people said things like that, but when it’s directed at you it feels kind of demoralizing and takes your own will out of the equation, which let’s be honest, is the most important part of living with this kind of injury.,Agree, you did your hard work! It’s ok to be grateful to God that you were able to recover but you don’t deserve to be discredited for your hard work! I know how insane PT and just living with this injury can be. I was very annoyed after my injury I was in Dubai and whenever I would ask the doctors about my diagnosis they’d say inshallah (God willing) and I was like... God wills that you as the doctor give me the statistical diagnosis for my injury, not just keep telling me I’d walk again inshallah.,When I moved my toes for the first time my aunt said thank god. Not one word to me about my hard work or to my therapist. It’s been 11 years and I still get mad when I think about it.How has your view of / relationship with God changed since your injury?,Not at all, still an atheist.,I have been nihilistic and agnostic in my earlier life but any stop through atheism didn’t last long because I think it’s arrogant to be alive for a few decades and outright say there is no God. A creator would have worked far longer than a few decades, so to me it’s ignorant to say there’s definitely no God. That said, it doesn’t matter if you believe in God or not so long as you care to be a good person to yourself and those you interact with.How has your view of / relationship with God changed since your injury?,Raised catholic, but was athiest, After a few decades of psychedelics I very much in the Alan Watts "We are the universe experiencing itself" camp.How has your view of / relationship with God changed since your injury?,I was an agnostic atheist before, and an even stronger atheist afterwards. I do like the teachings of buddhism, aside from the mysticism. The concept of accepting that life is suffering, seems extraordinarily relevant to me. Especially as a methodology to reduce that by accepting the impermanence of life.

I found the patients who kept telling me to pray, on the whole struggled to accept their own situation. Although, that could've been down to the individuals of course. It was by learning and listening to Western Buddhism that really helped me through some of the worst. Just my opinion.,I am heavily Buddhist in my spirituality as well. I believe they have the purest form of the message and are the strongest promoters of peace.How has your view of / relationship with God changed since your injury?,Pretty much the same depth and breadth as my relationship with Zeus or Thanos. 

I’m grateful that I don’t have some omnipotent father figure that chose not to intervene in my injury and recovery. I feel sorry for people who do.,Do you believe in the afterlife?How has your view of / relationship with God changed since your injury?,I used to believe il n god, never liked churches but used to pray every night before sleep. After the injury I no longer believe in god. I do believe there is more to this universe and reality but god from traditional religion is not a thing.,Has this made it harder to continue on?How has your view of / relationship with God changed since your injury?,I was Christian before and Christian after. I feel that my faith strengthened significantly though after. I find solace and peace in my faith and truly believe God has a plan for my life and everything has a purposeHow has your view of / relationship with God changed since your injury?,Yeah I agree, it might sound cult-ish. But that’s not how I meant it. You’re right, it’s dangerous in fact to think of your beliefs as absolute facts. But the absolute facts I believe in are love and peace. The stories surrounding that get complicated through religion and yes people fight so much via religion. So while I take every religious doctrine with a grain of salt (and flat-out reject many), I do not need to analyze my understanding of the innate peace and love in the Universe. That’s God. Whether you think of it as a single creator or a benevolent energy or refuse to acknowledge it at all, that’s God to me and no one can change my mind on that. I’ve witnessed it countless times through profound spiritual experiences. The thing about peace and love is that it doesn’t need analyzed further. The stories are complicated and have problems but peace and love is just peace and love. The problems come from the interpretation of people on what peace and love should look like.How has your view of / relationship with God changed since your injury?,I was an atheist, then thought I was having a spiritual awakening (nope- psychosis, first time ever) which contributed to my wreck. now I’m c7 incomplete and more of an atheist than I ever was. which is hard bc in any support group everyone’s always telling you to trust god or some shit. yes, tried that out and that’s why I’m here.How has your view of / relationship with God changed since your injury?,I’m certainly more grateful and confident of peace in the afterlife. Any worries of wrath and hell have disappeared.,Its better to enter the kingdom of God maimed than to spend eternity in hellHow has your view of / relationship with God changed since your injury?,[deleted],I experienced ego death too. It was after my injury and it was clear to me that my entire life led up to that ego death. Then I regained my ego slowly and authentically and I feel so... me now. What was your experience like?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Self Catheters and Infections,Not a man, but I just use a standard wet wipe (not antibacterial) and catheterise, which is how I was taught by the hospital. I have eczema so I wash my hands before catheterising with Hydramol (which is antimicrobial but not antibacterial). I only ever use antibacterial gel when travelling and only then if I can't access soap or need to wipe down surfaces in a public bathroom. When we're not in Covid times, I regularly use pub, restaurant, airport, etc bathrooms without much trouble. I just take regular wipes with me and a small bottle of antibacterial gel, but most of the time I don't even use the gel. 

I'm in the UK, and anecdotally I'd say that we're more reticent to overly sterilise with antibacterial gels, etc because it can inhibit your body's inherent ability to fight off infections, and antibacterial resistance is a real problem. I rarely get UTIs and the only thing I take to prevent/treat them is D Mannose (I get a powder that I add to my smoothie, but I only use it when travelling or if I think I already have an infection). I used to buy those urine testing strips, which were really useful in the early days of my injury, but since UTIs aren't common for me these days I don't really keep them in stock any more (they tend to have a limited shelf life). But everyone is different. Have you had a UTI or other infection since your injury? 

You might also find the SCI Owners' Club Facebook group helpful - it shouldn't be taken as medical advice, but you'll get a LOT of real-world experiences from people who've been living with spinal cord injuries for years or decades. Again anecdotally, but I'd say your routine is in the minority and I'd agree more on the side of your urologist's office in that it's overkill. But obviously, I am not a doctor and not familiar with your specific case or how likely you are to get UTIs so please take everything I've said with that in mind.,I have had an infection more often than not since my injury it seems like. Twice I ended up in the hospital for a few days. Never had one go away without antibiotics. I don't think it's a good idea at all to always be on antbiotics, but idk how else to keep the infections in check yet. Maybe my bladder will adapt over time?Self Catheters and Infections,The alcohol is overkill IMO. Men’s anatomy might be different, but that is a big no no for the ladies. An iodine swab should have already done the job - although nobody’s told me to wait 15 seconds. I imagine that’s to let whatever bacteria die, and then you wipe them away with the alcohol? If so rinsing with clean water after the iodine should do the trick. I’ve always just let the iodine do its job and go in right after. 

Some urologists prescribe antibiotics left and right, some allow bacteria to exist and prescribe only when you’ve got a fever. I think you’re seeing a similar divide in opinion on how sterile you need to be - doctors in general haven’t seemed to reach on consensus on how to view bacteria. 

Perhaps your hands could be cleaner though. If you’re washing, then touching your pants and getting everything in position you’re hands are no longer sterile. You could use sanitizer just before you touch the catheter, or put on gloves, or just make sure your not touching any part of the catheter that makes it in. Again, with male anatomy this might be out of the question.,Yeah the alcohol wipe is mostly for cleaning off the iodine residue, although the doctors said it would add some minuscule additional protection along with the iodine. I find it easier than rinsing with water after I'm all done and don't want that orange stain to just be left there. I have the speedicaths so the only part of the catheter I touch is at the end that doesn't come near the urethra opening when fully inserted. I have sometimes pulled my pants down first but again in public how do I wash my hands with my pants already down? How do I close the stall door without contaminating my hands? Again though I don't ever come near my urethra opening with my hands anyway.Self Catheters and Infections,That is about it actually. Just remember to wash your hands properly, and use sterilized gloves. It may also take some time to get adjusted to this new routine.Self Catheters and Infections,My husband is ~C6 incomplete. He uses the coloplast speedicath (first link) with baby wipes he has added rubbing alcohol to. Luckily he doesn't have to touch the tube or anything to cath since the speedicath is fairly rigid.

He also takes a cranberry supplement with PACs (second link). Here's had a few mild UTIs, but he's never been hospitalized for one or needed antibiotics for one since about 6 months out of the hospital.

https://products.coloplast.us/coloplast/continence-care/speedicath/speedicath-compact/speedicath-compact-set/speedicath-compact-set-male/

https://www.costco.com/trunature-pacran-cranberry-650-mg.%2C-140-vegetarian-capsules.product.100463241.html,I have the same speedicaths so I don't touch the tube at all during the process. Hearing how it's not as big of a deal for most people like your husband makes me think I'm doing something fundamentally wrong.Self Catheters and Infections,Utterly anecdotal, but I wonder if the frequency is relevant.


L1 incomplete, 10 years.


I've never had a UTI, and I don't do any prep whatsoever before using the catheter. I use the same type of catheter as you.


The only difference is I catheterise at least 8 times a day.


I have no idea whether the frequency is significant, or if I'm just very lucky.,How much liquid are you drinking everyday? I would think every extra catheter is another exposure chance to bacteria, and I definitely don't produce enough urine to warrant 8 times a day. As mentioned in another comment though, maybe I need to stay uncomfortably hydrated all the time.,I also catheterize a few times a day and all I do is remove the catheter from the package and insert. I use the Cure Ultra pre-lubricated ones. They come with a little plastic sleeve that I grab the catheter with. I've been doing this a few years and have never had an UTI.Self Catheters and Infections,I am female and use baby wipes after washing my hands and using a towel that is just for me and my hands. I'm methodical and clean but still get infections and sepsis three times. Unfortunate side effect. I did start to trial something called hyastat (sp?) that they put into the bladder via the urethra and was infection free for nine months. It lines the bladder to help stop bacteria settling. Unfortunately with covid I've no been able to have it done. I've had a couple of infections but not bad enough (almost) to be hospitalised. Perhaps enquire. UK here.Self Catheters and Infections,I am T10 for 10 years. Been on self Catheterization the whole time, rarely got infections. And the infections I got, were quickly cleared in 3-days, thanks to the meds I took. I do not follow any protocol for catheterization. Ultra basic system is what I have. Show Catheter under tap water, put few drops of lignocaine gel on the tip of the catheter and insert. Empty the urine in a medium sized bowl, and then into the commode. Rinse both under tap water again and rinse and flush. Also clean the head of my penis with wet cloth /wipes. In and out, max 5 minutes. Did this when I traveled abroad too. I have gone to clubs, movies, road trips, concerts, and quite a few places and all I needed was a restroom where my wheelchair could enter. What I was taught during my rehab, was what you said: clean the head of the penis with iodine, wash hands with soap etc. But after speaking to my mentor, I found it impractical. And went to simpler approach. Of course cleaning the head of the penis is needed: impressions of hygiene in front of your partner, if you are in a relationship.  I didn't clean the head until I saw a cringe worthy reaction in my ex's face. And another ex telling me I should always do it.

My fluid intake varies according to the weather. In summer more intake, but don't go for as many restroom breaks. May be 3-4 sometimes 2. But in winter I do it almost every 1.5hrs. Also break frequency increases if I go drinking. Like almost every hour or 1.5 hrs a restroom break. I use those lofric Catheters and re-use them for roughly 60-90 days or so. Here in India, rehab also recommend re-use. But that's for a rusch catheter for 20-30 days. Catheters are stored in a simple cloth bag. 

Now I cannot say if Indian weather is conducive for such a laxed Catheterizing protocol but it works for me and many I know. I would definitely say, account your surroundings temperature and decide on the frequency of restroom breaks. But bring a system. System is important. I always made sure I pee'ed every 3-4hrs during the first 1-1.5 years. And ensured I drank enough water (at least 2 lites). In our local forums for Sci, some say cranberry juice has helped them to manage UTIs.Self Catheters and Infections,I didn’t see anywhere you mention wearing gloves so sorry if I missed it but you must wear like a latex glove. Even surgeons who wash the crap outta their hands wear gloves for surgery. I take Methenamine to help combat the onset of a UTI. My urologist also gives me a mild antibiotic that I take a few times a week to also help. I might also suggest making sure your really clean after a bowel movement, which may or may not apply to you. Additionally, check what you’re drinking. Stay away from sugar drinks. I know if I have a Coke or liquor, I’m gonna get a UTI. Just my thoughts. Good luck.Self Catheters and Infections,(T5 Male Incomplete) I suffered with persistent UTI's for the first few years when I was always very sterile. I will try and make a long story short!

I changed to using a white tip (smaller) chemically polished catheter called "Apogee" Turned out that most of my infections were from trauma. 

Now I use water as lube with a non scented wipe. Scented and anti bacterial wipes do more harm then good. I NEVER clean my catheter. I reuse it for months without cleaning. I only change it when it becomes too hard due to its age.

Sounds crazy but I NEVER have UTI's anymoreSelf Catheters and Infections,I'm T12 complete, male.

Speedicaths 4-5 times a day. Every time I've given a urine sample there has been an infection but I'm 99% of the time asymptomatic. I dont have a procedure for catheterising. The only thing I try to do is not touch the tube, just the connection. Unless Im out in a public toilet most of the time I dont bother to wash my hands - if I've been cooking or outside at all I'll wash my hands, but most of the time no.

It's a shame youre having such issues but from my limited experience (living with SCI since Jan 2017) it just seems everyone is different. A good friend of mine, T4 complete has been hospitalised 2-3times a year since I've known him.

Hope you manage to work something out though, I could imagine it'd be a serious pain to deal with!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
One step forward, two steps back,[deleted],With goodrx it's still $400 a month and insurance keeps saying it's completely excluded from my plan and refuses to do anything. They won't even work an appeal for me because I've used to manyOne step forward, two steps back,I had a baclofen pump put in for my muscle spasms and it's been a fantastic solution.  The downside is it has to be surgically implanted and you have to have it refilled with new medication every 6 months and the pump itself has to be replaced every 5 years. If you can handle that though it's a great potential option.,I couldn’t agree with you more. The Baclofen pump has been life changing. The newer pumps are supposed to last between 6-7 years for battery life.,I’ve been considering a baclofen pump for awhile now, but have held off bc I’m concerned it’ll wipe out the little strength I have (I’m C5 incomplete). Thereby continuing to make things hard just due to muscle weakness instead of significant spasticity. Any thoughts based on your experience?One step forward, two steps back,I know every injury us different. I'm c6/c7 also got injured 2 and a half years ago. When they transferred me to a rehab the list of medications I was taking was really scary. On top of everything I've had what's heterotopic osification on my hip, it's kinda matured now. So I fought a lot with doctors first to drop the nerve pain medications like gabapentin, pain was horrible for almost 2 years but gabapentin slowed down my brain big time. I also dropped almost all pain medications on 2and or 3rd month, maybe it was dumb but sho ui kder pain went away also around 6 months in. I also dropped my blood pressure meds and it took awhile for it to stabilize a little by itself. It still drops once or twice a day. Bowel was a nightmare in rehab for some reason my doctor, who wasn't the brightest gave me bowel movement pills 4 times a day, they were also feeding me 3 times a day, so it was a mess I dont even wanna think about it. What I do now is i eat once a day, I try to always cook myself and I make sure I eat berries and some fruits to help with movement. This way I kinda have my bowel under control, there's never too much food in me, my energy level is super high with this diet, since my body doesnt have to constantly digest food, and also i sleep better. First month is tough because you might feel hungry all the time but afterwards you just get hungry before you first and only meal. This might also help to keep your weight in check. With bladder do IC, usually when I leak it's because of uti, so I start drinking a lot of water and see if it stops if not my doctor prescribes antibiotics that I would usually take for 3-7 days. That's last resort though research on weather constant use of antibiotics can cause more complex bacteria in the future is not very clear yet. Overall drinking water is very very important and if your current bladder program not accommodating maybe some other solution might work. I was visited by this guy back in rehab who switch to leg bags, he would just drink whatever he wanted and just empty his leg bag once it was full. I wouldnt do that myself but again we all deal with this stuff differently. Maybe s ok me of the things I do seem dumb or counterproductive but just wanted to share what worked for me. I'm still figuring stuff out.,That's interesting to hear. I tend to eat one main meal of the day with many berries/fruit and have the same experience. Although I do eat snacks throughout the day. My weight is very stable, Could actually do with more but I find eating more stresses out my system too much and still doesn't help me put on weight. The other thing that makes a world of difference is drinking frequently and a lot.,Oh yeah I stopped all pain meds and nerve meds for the same reason. My bowel is usually good but changing meds a lot makes things difficult. I'm on a permanent maintenence antibiotic because after I got cdiff the utis wouldn't go away but have stopped now. I think my bladder issues are more spasm related but why the spasms are getting worse i don't know.One step forward, two steps back,I’ve had many episodes of falling back after positive gains but I’m finding they are short lived in comparison to what I’m gaining in the long run. That being said, I’m constantly diagnosing what’s happening with my body. You mentioned coffee and I used to live it. I’d make fun of guys at work that had to hit the restroom right after coffee because it cleaned them out. But now I’m that guy so no more coffee for me. I too quit most of my meds cause I wasn’t seeing anything positive out of them and am hanging onto those that work. So it’s okay to rant and this was my little rant cause I know how frustrated I get when everything is fouled up or I’m have crazy painful spasms or feel like I’ve lost some strength. So reach out to this sub when you’re like that and or need advice. Take care.One step forward, two steps back,It is completely normal to have these struggles. SCI is a long term journey and there are going to be times where it gets complex and times when it is smooth sailing. 

My biggest suggestion is to seek out a rehabilitation nurse to help sort through some of these  things because there is so much going on. it sounds like you are trying all the major options, but it is definitely a good idea to try to get off the bladder meds as they almost all cause constipation. I get a ton of bladder spasms without the botox, and I'd suggest you talk with your physiatrist about bladder augmentation, or bladder implants, that sort of thing. There are some really interesting new options out there right now.One step forward, two steps back,I'm four years out from my injury, incomplete L1. There are many ups and downs on this journey, as you well know. Something that has helped me manage my irritation and frustration with things has been seeing a rehabilitation psychologist who specializes in working with people with traumatic injuries. Honestly, the ups and downs are still there and it's a constant change, but therapy has really helped me to manage my emotions and to not let my pain and irritation and lifestyle changes get the best of me, because it is beyond frustrating at times. If you're already doing that, then great. But if you haven't tried seeing a rehab psychologist, I think it could be very beneficial to you. Hope you're feeling somewhat better.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Skin pain,I have this burning and crawling pain on the side of my leg, where it transitions from no feeling to normal feeling. If I wear spanx, the pain is gone, and touching it isn't painful anymore. I think it's the constant pressure that relieves it, and tricks my brain into ignoring it. No guarantees, but maybe something similar will help you.,Thanks.,same for me with pain in my left thigh and knee. I used to wear pantyhose or compression leggings and It would prevent my hair follicles from moving which was EXQUISITELY painful.Skin pain,I have a similar issue with the left quad. It’s sensitive and the the level of sensitivity varies. I ( a guy) wear runners leggings and feel like that constant contact the material helps reduce the sensitivity. I also sometimes use a dry wash cloth to rub on it and it seems to help temporarily.Skin pain,Does this pain happen above the injury or only below? 

What does this pain feel like? Do you have sensation below your injury?

Who told you that it is nerve pain? Why didn't they give you advice on what maybe taken to relieve the pain?!

Gabapentin was what I was given when nerve pain was a problem. But talk to your doctor about it and see if it is suitable for you. You can't just go cold turkey in gabapentin.Skin pain,One thing I find helps a little can be if you have some moisturiser rubbed into your skin. One of the things we suffer from is dry skin and it’s the messages going to the brain can be misinterpreted because of the SCI. Other solutions can be drugs for neurological pain. There are lots of them and none really good for you as they act on your nervous system basically in your brain chemistry. Apologies in advance for the spelling - Amitryptaline, Gabapentin, pregabalin, Duloxetine and many others. Usually these drugs are used in larger doses to treat mental disorders like depression etc.,I do use moisturizer but find no difference. But thank you for responding.Skin pain,My legs have been 'numb' since my first surgery to address issues surrounding my congenital spinal stenosis. I was told this was nerve damage. I have what I call 'patches' from my waist down that come and go. Sometimes these areas of skin a super-sensitive to the least little touch, even if I touch myself. Ticklish. I think this goes along with my hypersensitive reflexes. Sometimes these 'patches' just turn on by themselves and it's like it's tingling with electricity. Almost an itch, but not quite. 

I've had all sorts of weird things happen that have been written off as nerve pain. Touched on one leg and felt on the other. It wasn't until I found a doctor that specialized in failed back surgery that I actually got some real answers. I'm not sure where you're located, but I'd be glad to pass along the name of the doctor that finally helped me if you're interested. Just PM me and I'll pass along the info.,Will do. Thanks.Skin pain,I sometimes use icy hot in the region that I get nerve pain. I get stabbing near the area of my transition line at random and icy hot tends to help. My psychologist also taught me about pain meditation where I distract my mind or focus on something to help alleviate the pain. Hope these tips help!,. I thought meditation would help. But I have trouble clearing my mind. The pain keeps creeping in. I’ve had some meditation training. I may have to look into it more as the drugs are scary. Thank you for your reply.Skin pain,I took diclofenac and paracetamol daily for nerve pain and cramping, seemed to be the only thing that really helped (caffeine seemed to help a  little bit too, oddly enough). But I was really paranoid about taking too much for too long, the possible effects of an overdose or chronic overuse are quite horrific.,Never had those mentioned before. ThanksSkin pain,Both magnesium and b complex have been helpful to me in overall lessening and relieving nerve pain.  Hot pepper cream has been pretty amazing in terms of quick relief.  

I have found topical CBD (not hemp-derived, but from a very low THC strain) to be a great help with those sudden bad patches, it’s great for just prevention, makes my skin feel totally normal no nerve pain at all, but it’s hard to find/get (and legal where I live) so it’s kind of a last resort.,Thank you so much.Skin pain,The standard first line treatments for neuropathic pain are gabapentin, a tricyclic antidepressant like amitriptyline or nortriptyline, TENS, capsaicin cream (made from oil of hot peppers), clonidine (a blood pressure medication used off label for pain), and acupuncture with electrostimulation. Hypnosis, CBT and other forms of sleep and psychological therapies can also be helpful. Next line treatments include opioid meds like Tramadol, hydromorphone, Topamax (an atypical antipsychotic) and methadone - all have side effects or addiction potential and opioid prescription is difficult pretty much everywhere now since the opioid crisis. Once you've tried pretty much everything, if it hasn't helped, they consider surgical options which could include rhizotomy (splitting of nerve roots that feed the areas that most contribute to pain), DREZ surgery (surgery that cuts away part of the spinal cord where the nerve tracts related to areas of pain are), or an intrathecal pump implant or neurostimulator. These are implanted devices used to manage pain, and have a computer and small battery pack around the size of a hockey puck and are connected by a small tube or wire lead to your spinal cord at the level where the pain is being caused by. I have an intrathecal pump and it's worked really well for me because it has anesthetic in it that has managed to silence most of the pain I was experiencing in my legs, butt, back, knee and foot. Here's a great plain language summary of research evidence on pain after SCI, just in case you are interested. [https://scireproject.com/community/topic/pain/](https://scireproject.com/community/topic/pain/),Wow. Thanks for all that.Skin pain,It’s below the injury. Arms, trunk and legs it just feels raw and very sensitive to anything that touches it. I’ve been taking gabapentin 3x day since the injury but the pain persists. Thanks for reaching out.,Definitely sounds like nerve pain. Have you spoken to your specialist (if you have one) or general practitioner (if not)? Morphine works for it as well but can become addictive, some people swear by CBD oil as well (didn’t work for me), and making sure you’re offloading pressure from those regions as much as practically reasonable should help.,Have you tried other medications for nerve pain? I have similar (although less severe) allodynia as well. I was also initially taking gabapentin, but switched over to pregabalin and I found it helps me a lot more.Skin pain,It’s on my entire left arm. it feels like an itchy, blistering rash but nothing is there. if my hair brushes against it it hurts immensely. I’m taking gabapentin but even maxing out my dose nothing helpsSkin pain,painkillers also don’t touch the pain for me but I’ve heard some use Valium or Xanax. I’m not endorsing the idea, just seen it mentioned for nerve pain. I don’t know why it works but can’t ask my doctor about it for me bc I can’t stop my pain medication right now and they won’t let me take both.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Power chair advice?,Praying for your father I hope he has a smooth recovery. Now when it comes to power chairs the main thing you want is a recliner option so your dad doesn’t get pressure sores. Sitting high option is cool if your insurance covers it if not it’s really not necessary. Really hope your dad stays strong and continue to push him through physical therapy!,Thank you!! Good to know. He has the best attitude and we know we are very blessed that he is still here!!Power chair advice?,I’m C5 and the seat elevator is a necessity for me because it helps me get my seat level with my bed so I can transfer myself. Without that, I wouldn’t even be able to help others with the transfer, and I would need to use a lift. There’s also the benefit of being able to reach more things as a result of elevation. And the fact that in crowded places like bars, being that low to the ground is awful and makes it impossible to navigate. 

As others have mentioned, make sure it can recline, as pressure sores are a huge issue for SCIs and that will assists in keeping those away. I personally have used permobil chairs and those have worked fine for me,This reminds me of another benefit of the seat elevator:

Standard tables are often to short for my husband's legs to fit underneath when he's in his power chair (he's about 6'3" and 280lbs), but the seat elevator allows him to get tall enough to fit perfectly at a bar height table.Power chair advice?, Okay I’ll need to talk to the pt to see if he thinks my dad would benefit. I don’t think his good arm is going to be able to pick up too much but you never know. The crowd thing is good to know! Thanks for helping!!Power chair advice?,My husband has a seat elevator (he's about a C6 incomplete and in his 30s). It has been handy for him to reach some things up high or even raise his chair a little for transfers or to help him stand up with the walker.

It cost about $2000 out of pocket (it's not covered by insurance). Personally, my husband would probably be ok without it now that he's stronger and has remained more movement, but it was very useful for the first year or two.

My recommendation, make sure your dad's loaner chair is configured for him to drive with his worse hand if possible. It'll help him gain more movement in that hand and free up his better hand for other tasks. (My husband was driving with his good hand for a while, which neglected his bad hand and definitely didn't help any recovery).,Maybe that seat elevator isn’t a good option for him then because he won’t be doing any standing or transfers without a sling. That is a great idea about his bad hand. Thanks for sharing!!Power chair advice?,Good on you! I am a C2 - C6 level injury, although much younger than your father. It will give him a lot of much-needed independence.

I personally use Sunrise Mobility Q700. Talk to your doctor to recommend someone to customize the chair. I use a Roho back and cushion, which in my experience are excellent. You would also want the customization for back reclining, tilting, leg raise. It looks really nice in modern and is comfortable for many hours. Absolutely love it and would chose it again in a heartbeat.

I have also seen the Permobil and Quantum (I do not remember which models), although they are good not as good as the Q700.

This is purely based on my personal experience. I was really careful when choosing one and had been using a manual chair prior to this. Confident that he will like it.,Thank you so much for the specifics.  Leg raising is a feature no one has mentioned. I will look into that back and cushion. Take care!!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Anyone else have trouble sitting up straight?,Yes, I struggle with it, too. C5, 35 years post injury. My physical therapist has pushed me to use a chest strap or shoulder harness. I hate the idea, but the more reading, writing, and “looking down” work I do makes the struggle worse. I am a “hooker” too. I hook my arm on my canes, always have. The more I read the more my neck aches. During the quarantine, I have been unable to see my physical therapist. Having her work on my neck every two weeks made a huge difference. I found it vital to find a PT who is knowledgeable and listens to these issues. Golden!Anyone else have trouble sitting up straight?,What kind of back do you have on your wheelchair? A lot of quads have tension backs and they are really bad for encouraging slumping.,I use a roho agility back but the worse this gets the more I’m thinking it’s not angled correctlyAnyone else have trouble sitting up straight?,I have this issue  as well (C2 C5/6 incomplete) though I'm relatively new to this, so have yet to figure out some sort of hack. My posture is generally pretty bad as well which screws with my shoulders, neck and lower back so much.Anyone else have trouble sitting up straight?,95% of my day is spent tilted back and reclined in my wheelchair. Broke my neck in 1991. I have pretty bad scoliosis. Sitting up in my chair causes me to lean on my left elbow.Anyone else have trouble sitting up straight?,You could have scoliosis or a kyphosis (exaggerated curve of your upper back/neck like a hunch). It can be caused by bad seating - seat angle and backrest setup - and also by muscle imbalances in your shoulders, back and chest. You should definitely see a physiotherapist about it first who knows about SCI and wheelchair users, and go from there.,Thanks!Anyone else have trouble sitting up straight?,I also suffer from this as well. 10 years post injury. Like another poster, I used to hook my arms behind to the push handles to give me more stability but actually Lost my wrist extension on one side due to nerve damage on the inside of my bicep. Fortunately, this returned after about four months after doing some nerve tests at a local hospital. So I wouldn't recommend that at all. I would recommend a chest strap as high up as possible and try and loosen it to give yourself some flexibility and training in leaning back. There are many shoulder straps you can use designed to give people better posture, usually available quite cheaply on Amazon. You can wear one of these for half a day and I found that helped. Also if I spent three days in bed, I would find my back would reset it self, so this is likely from leaning forwards too often Down at a phone/ Computer. And the other thing that can help is pulling your knees forwards to recline yourself a little bit more, but this can put dangerous amounts of pressure on the ischial areas and generate pressure sores. So, rest, good discipline and straps can help.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
This is pretty cool!,I’ve been using a wheelchair for 20 years, and this actually doesn’t look that helpful, it’s not that last 10 feet a hard packed sand, but the first 200 yards of soft sand that’s hard to get across, and anybody who’s using a chair every day would never dare take it in the salt water, plus that metal railing itself is going to fall apart in no time, what’s really useful is the rollout mats that you see in places like La Jolla beach, hopefully they start to show up everywhere, Dude looks like he just climbed in the chair for the photo opp, just sayingThis is pretty cool!,Makes my heart smileThis is pretty cool!,It’s very nice. I have to use a beach wheelchair or get a friend to carry me.This is pretty cool!,we have one of those in my city - it's a paved ramp with a hand rail on it going into the water. The advantage for wheelchair users is you can wheel all the way up to the water's edge and transfer in, if you want to swim. There's also a beach wheelchair available that's designed to be wheeled into the water. The handrail is really helpful for transferring and for ambulatory people to hang on to when getting across the beach to the water. We also use the ramp as a launch spot for kayaking on the lake because you can place the kayak on the ramp and wheel alongside it so there's a level transfer and you don't have to wheel on the sand to get to it.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
It's hard not considering myself a husk of what I used to be before my accident.,You’re still awesomeIt's hard not considering myself a husk of what I used to be before my accident.,I know what you mean - 23 years post injury, and the pervasive presence of disability is challengingIt's hard not considering myself a husk of what I used to be before my accident.,Coming up one year for me in a few days - I know what you mean.It's hard not considering myself a husk of what I used to be before my accident.,It is a constant battle for me. Reminders of what you thought your life was going to be like smack you in the face randomly and then the mind starts effing with you. I hope you have someone to vent to cause it helps. Stay up!  You are alive-period. That’s the first hurdle.It's hard not considering myself a husk of what I used to be before my accident.,Same for me, but I can enjoy thinking about the good times, And then tell myself to stop dwelling on the past and look at what's next. I doubt it will ever go away, well it certainly improved.It's hard not considering myself a husk of what I used to be before my accident.,my life was pretty great before. now I get treated like I have the mental capabilities of a toddler while I’m stuck in a body of a 90 year old.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
First Episode of Off The Crutch Podcast,Subscribed!,Thanks!!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Boner question,Alprostadil injections. 4+ hour erections that led to 3am emergency rushes to the hospital because it had been 5 hours..... the drive took the edge off, hahahahaha.,That's ridiculous lol and I'm glad that you are doing well hahaBoner question,Have you tried ball loops and things mate? They can help the blood stay up there!

Other than that I don't know. I use a cock sleeve to stay hard, and at some point will be having an erectile implant put in.Boner question,[www.SCIsexualhealth.ca](https://www.SCIsexualhealth.ca) :) There's a whole section on this under male fertility.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Drug trials,Hey there! I've had a fair amount of tethering myself. drug trials and regeneration research tends to be focused on people with very new injuries, as the theory goes the recently damaged nerves are more likely to be able to regrow, and less scar has formed. This isn't the case for people with chronic non-traumatic issues like Spina Bifida and tethered cord. The same principles apply  to many other forms of neurological injury - the earlier you get to surgery to correct the problem, the better. The research on tethering is that there is negligible  benefit to detethering surgeries after growth has stopped (ie after adolescence). The good news is that you're unlikely to retether more in adulthood, the bad news is that there is very little research on this topic. It's very likely that the frontiers of research being explored right now for spinal cord injury (electrical stimulation, stem cell therapies) will one day be applied to other forms of neurological injury like tethering since they work on underlying principles of the nervous system... however that's a long way off., Seems unacceptable to be zero treatment :/Drug trials,I have a traumatic sci (as an adult).  I had tethering, had surgery, things went very well (I regained some function and sensation, spasticity and nerve pain diminished) and I have had no recurrence.  I am also not on blood thinners and have no congenital clotting disorders, which are both things that (anecdotally) seem to be linked to recurrent post-traumatic tethering.  

I have an acquaintance with chiari who has multiple clotting disorders and no-one will operate on the chiari because the risk of tethering is so great and the damage would be so high.,How long did it take you to regain any of that? I actually lost more from the surgery than I did from the tetheringDrug trials,Interesting I’ve never heard about the relation to clottingPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Insurance with changing jobs,Each state and company are different. You should probably contact the HR department of each job to see what your options are.Insurance with changing jobs,do you still have Medicaid or Medicare? I ask because I started working.,No I've been on my employer Healthcare since my injury so I'm worried about gaps in coverage if I do change jobsPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Did you lose Medicaid after you started working?,The 1619b provision will allow you to keep your Medi-Caid if you need it to continue working and your income is not enough to cover your medical needs, and it will allow you to earn higher income than the poverty-based Medi-Caid that was linked to your SSI (the income limits differ state by state, but the threshold is usually at least twice what the lower income category allows), provided that you are still determined medically disabled. There is usually also another category of Medi-Caid for people with disabilities, where you will pay a small sliding scale premium, based on income, and also requires that you be employed and need to maintain the Medi-Caid coverage to continue working.,Thanks!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Elon Musks 'NeuraLink' hopes to treat spinalcordInjuries and other disabilities.,August 28 they’re giving an update on their tech.Elon Musks 'NeuraLink' hopes to treat spinalcordInjuries and other disabilities.,I hope Elon proves me completely wrong. But...

Bullshit. He’s essentially the tech version of a preacher claiming miracles at this point. 

There’s plenty to be done for people with brain/spinal injuries TODAY that are not miracle moonshots. 

He could use his billions to fund research for a new wheelchair as a stopgap for these people. Or fund a model rehabilitation facility (or five) across the world.,That’s the same non solution attitude that’s keeping people with SCI from getting any further treatment after they’ve left rehab,>He could use his billions to fund research for a new wheelchair as a stopgap for these people.

“If I had asked people what they wanted, they would have said faster horses.” -Henry Ford

Musk is an asshole, but he's an asshole that has successfully privatized spaceflight as well as aggressively pushed markets forward in electric vehicles and solar power (plus personal flame throwers lol). If anybody can lead the charge on this, it's him.,>that are not miracle moonshots. 

It's not that far out

https://youtu.be/OWNZ5axNadk

Biggest constraint right now is creating a BCI that is portable enough to be used in daily life outside the lab, unlike something like the Utah array , which is exactly what they are working on.,fund research for a new wheelchair? why would he? and what kind of wheelchair are you even talking about? this is a weird whataboutismElon Musks 'NeuraLink' hopes to treat spinalcordInjuries and other disabilities.,there are a shitload of places dedicated to advancing wheelchairs. there is not that level of support for something like Tesla’s described. if it doesn’t work out then it doesn’t but some of us would like to be able to use our hands again someday if not walk againElon Musks 'NeuraLink' hopes to treat spinalcordInjuries and other disabilities.,thanks for the downvote dudeElon Musks 'NeuraLink' hopes to treat spinalcordInjuries and other disabilities.,Fuck Elon Musk lolPosted Question, Comment, Reply
One Beast effort for the week Hope this find you all well and pushing forward with me. Thank you for inspiring me. Stairs, sleds what next? Lets see together.,Keep pushing brother. I have a much milder spinal cord injury  but it still gets me down. Seeing people like you and others  pushing through even worst situations then myself gives me inspiration. I truly mean this.One Beast effort for the week Hope this find you all well and pushing forward with me. Thank you for inspiring me. Stairs, sleds what next? Lets see together.,Wow!! I love it!One Beast effort for the week Hope this find you all well and pushing forward with me. Thank you for inspiring me. Stairs, sleds what next? Lets see together.,You're doing good my man 👍 if you don't mind me asking, what was the injury?One Beast effort for the week Hope this find you all well and pushing forward with me. Thank you for inspiring me. Stairs, sleds what next? Lets see together.,L1burst incomplete. Broke several other bones including leg, wrist, clavicle and 7 ribs. Caged my spine from 2 above to 1 below the L1.,I'm an L1 incomplete as well and just based off of this video, our presentation looks really similar! What mobility devices (if any) have you been using? I generally use forearm crutches but I'm starting to work towards using canes for shorter distances. You look like you're crushing it dude! If you ever want to chat or swap tips hit me up!One Beast effort for the week Hope this find you all well and pushing forward with me. Thank you for inspiring me. Stairs, sleds what next? Lets see together.,Thx. Appreciate it.One Beast effort for the week Hope this find you all well and pushing forward with me. Thank you for inspiring me. Stairs, sleds what next? Lets see together.,Cool. I’m using a walker at times. Still using a wheelchair for long days outside. I also have the toe-offs. My quads are doing nicely but it’s taking time to build hammies and glutes.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Dog training in a wheelchair! Teaching my girl to come up on my lap in a controlled manner.,For anyone wondering why I'd bother to train this, it makes it way easier to get toys out of her mouth, give her pets, put her harness on, clip leads on, etc 🙂Dog training in a wheelchair! Teaching my girl to come up on my lap in a controlled manner.,This is awesome. I'm about to get a puppy in September. Can't seem to find good resources for wheelchair puppy training. Any hints?,Is it going to be a big dog or small dog? I'm not gunna lie, training a large dog from a wheelchair is not for the faint hearted! The most important thing to get down is lead control. If your dog can't walk without pulling then you're screwed from a chair user's perspective! In a chair you can't brace like a person on 2 feet can, if your dog sees a squirrel and pulls, you'll end up on the floor! 

For walking, I use a halty lead, I clip one end around my waist (most secure part of me) and the other end to my pup's harness. I trained her to always walk on the right side of my chair, so she won't get tangled in the wheels. I started by having my partner push me, whilst I fed her treats for walking on a nice slack lead beside me. Once she got the hang of that, I started going out myself, but accompanied. I only started walking her alone once I was 100% sure she would not pull.

Oh, and definitely consider getting a freewheel or rgk front wheel. It's great for the dog park!

Other than that I'd say, crack down on any behaviour you don't like quickly! It's was easier to teach good behaviour than it is to unteach bad! Also check out 'it's me or the dog' (all episodes on YouTube) it's a great show and has awesome training tips from problem behaviours!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Looking for some prespective,I have the same pins and needles in the same places, However, I find them quite uncomfortable and I've always been told that this is neuropathic nerve pain. It gets stronger usually if there is something wrong and I take Lyrica on the highest dose to try and Control it. However, it doesn't seem to help much. If anyone else has some solutions, I'd love to hear it as well.Looking for some prespective,I was told that with more movement that I may get more nerve pain, I mainly use desensitizing techniques to lessen it (ice, heat, and taking a textured clothe to the areas). I was told for fiery nerve pain specifically, elavil is best. I took it for while and it helped a lot even at low dosage, and eventually I stopped when my nerves finally calmed down a bit. 

I’m still pretty new in my injury as well, so I’m not that experienced, but these are what helped me.,Thanks for sharing! Very interesting indeed!!

Where I am located, despite my asking of different professionals, very little, if anything, has been shared about nerve pain or what to expect with it.Looking for some prespective,Unfortunately it feels like a lot of medical professionals only know general information about SCI’s. I still get nerve pain, but it’s a lot more tolerable now. I use to not be able to lay on my side because I felt like it was burning. It’s so different for everybody though, so it may take a lot of experimentation to figure out what helps. Good luck and I hope the best for you!,Thank you. This helps more than you can know! Thanks!Looking for some prespective,I hoping I can add a little here. Firstly, everyone of course is different. That being said, we’ve all had some very similar pain/spasm experience. I had no nerve pain or spasms until about 7/8 months. Then bam! Right quad with the burning, muscle cramp and pain (L1 burst incomplete). They started after my PT increased and I started using 4AP (4 aminopyridine). Doc told me it was a good thing as the nerves we’re trying to reconnect. I was feeling like the sense of feeling was moving , albeit slowly, farther down my leg but man do the contractions and pain kick my ass. The more I’d workout, the more they would intensify which makes sense to me. I sometimes think I was told it was a good thing to keep my mind off it. But I’m constantly diagnosing things that contribute to these events like sugary drinks, spicy food, UTI or intensive workouts and hydration. But just when I think I got it nailed, it changes. The desensitizing helps at times but I’m terrible at keeping it up on a regular basis. Just stay with it,Very interesting that's what the doctor told you. I also find it very interesting that your feeling was that the "sense of feeling" was slowing moving down your leg. I have gained skin sensitivity well below the navel, when originally I couldn't feel a touch even an inch or so above my navel when the injury occured. 

As you said everyone is different yet similarities are there as well. I'm T12 Complete, 11 months post injury and I still don't get any spasticity. No cramps yet either and hope it stays that way. 

I've watched the stairs video you posted and it's amazing! Your efforts are paying off!!Looking for some prespective,PT is definitely our new job. Use and improve or lose it.Looking for some prespective,You’re still very early in your injury so anything is possible. Personally, I recovered a lot of movement, but very little sensation. If at all (I’m L1 incomplete). I’m walking with a clever-lite right now and can do longer distances (not extremely long yet). No two SCIs are the same, keep working those muscles though if you see yourself recovering. Even if you feel like it’s moving but it’s not, keep trying.,Thank you! It's great to hear your perspective. Congrats on gaining such great movement thus far. Keep at it!! I (and others I'm sure) gain a lot of inspiration from such experiences as yours as well as similar experiences of others here. 

I'll keep at it of course. I'm trying to be very much in touch with my body and paying careful attention to whatever I feel including new sensations or movements as well as keeping a record of how older movements and sensations are holding up over time. Any little gain is motivating and quite encouraging.Looking for some prespective,I declined lyrica at about a month into my injury because I felt it wasn't helping anyway and I didn't want anything to affect the communication between my upper body and lower body. I figured if it was numbing pain it was also interrupting signals, potentially. Just my take :)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
My SCI happened when I was pregnant, here is me right before I gave birth. My baby just turned 1m old today. The birth was extremely difficult but I didn’t need a c section. L5-S1 incomplete,Talk about brave and string. Your the poster child for those.My SCI happened when I was pregnant, here is me right before I gave birth. My baby just turned 1m old today. The birth was extremely difficult but I didn’t need a c section. L5-S1 incomplete,Love this!My SCI happened when I was pregnant, here is me right before I gave birth. My baby just turned 1m old today. The birth was extremely difficult but I didn’t need a c section. L5-S1 incomplete, Congrats mother. I’m a T5 completePosted Question, Comment, Reply
Is it bad to not want to explain it when people ask why you're in a wheelchair?,First of all, you don't have to explain anything. It's something very personal to you and strangers don't have the right to hear about your personal story. Would you expect someone to reply to a question about how they lost their virginity? Of course not. That's how personal this question can be. If people don't understand that, fuck em. 

Now some advice how to deal with this question for yourself. I have different 'scripts' for different situations and different kinds of people. The short version is just "I had an accident". It answers the question and if they ask more, I can tell them politely that I don't want to talk about it. If I don't want to talk about it, but they're nice people I will say something like: "I had an accident ten years ago and it was pretty bad, but now I'm doing pretty well. It's a pretty long story and I've told it a lot so it's just a bit of a... boring conversation. When I know people better I will tell them the specifics of the accident and my rehabilitation journey, but also how I dealt with it and how it made me grow. Usually I will then end it with asking them a specific question about their life. In that way it doesn't become a story about how I became disabled, but an *exchange* of important things that happened in both of our lives. 

In all these situations it is important for you to know that *I control* the conversation. It is *my life*, so I don't talk about things I don't want to talk about. When I say "I had an accident", people always assume that I had a car accident. If I don't want the conversation to continue in this path, I won't correct them, even if it is not true. If you answer with a short answer, they should pick up the hint that you don't want to talk about it. If they then continue to ask, they are making the faux pas. 

Hope my perspective on this can help you in the future.,I had this happen kind of early on at a wedding reception. A guest whom I had never met before came up and said that her little girl, who appeared about seven years old m, had a question and if it was OK. I said “sure.” The little girl asked politely why I was in a wheelchair. I said matter-of-factly, “because I can’t walk.“ It was fun watching her process the information as if that should’ve been enough (in a ‘but I already knew that’ kind of way) and whether or not she should ask a followup question. I was hoping for a little sass back – squinty-eyed, hands on hips. Didn’t get any.,Thankyou, I did find this very helpfulIs it bad to not want to explain it when people ask why you're in a wheelchair?,Tbh I just base it on what I want to explain at the time. Sometime they get the full "Oh I fell snowboarding in 2015 and broke my neck/damaged my spinal cord and then inflammation didn't go away  and that led to another lesion (and diagnosis of inactive MS) in 2019 making me an incomplete C2 C5/6 quadriplegic" and other times they get the "...can't walk" 

It's not really their business most of the time, so whether or not I give a good explanation is kinda my decision.,It makes me feel better to know other people 'dumb it down' so to speak!Is it bad to not want to explain it when people ask why you're in a wheelchair?,My boyfriend usually says something along the lines of “laser tag accident” or “hot dog eating competition”. We watch them try to process the information and laugh about it later.

Took him 2 years to tell me and that’s okay, it was a traumatic experience and traumatic experiences aren’t exactly small talk or first date conversations. You have no reason to explain just to settle someone’s passing curiosity.Is it bad to not want to explain it when people ask why you're in a wheelchair?,Different story based on situation is my take too! Based on the person I am conversing with, I decide which story to tell. And no, I don't tell the same story to everyone. This also makes people aware that Spinal cord injury can have variety of causes: a fall be it from 1st floor or from a branch 6 feet above the ground, a wrong slip in the bathroom, road traffic accident, a wrong dive into the pool. When I was part of peer counseling team, I heard loads of stories. And I re-use some of them. Closer the person is, true the story is. 

In my country, I have strangers starting from Uber driver to some random person in club coming up to me and asking me about why I am on wheelchair, and telling I will walk again soon. I am no longer bothered with walking part. But I do tell different stories, sometimes to instil fear / horror, and some times for fun. They'd even get personal. Am I married, do I have kids. And life must be tough and bla bla. But like I said, based on how the conversation starts, my story develops.

This also keeps me entertained 🙂

You are not obligated to respond to this personal query, but it's better to come in terms and start enjoying the reaction on listener's face. Especially if you some how end up making the story relatable to his life too, you get to shake his sanity for a few hrs. I know, super evil. But why not?,Thanks for this. Before I got all my car adaptions set up, I used ubers for a long time. They were awful for it. Always asked me what happened, or if it was 'perminant'. Had a few suggest herbal or mystic healing things too, hah!Is it bad to not want to explain it when people ask why you're in a wheelchair?,You're not obligated to tell anyone anything about your injury. And if they're a complete stranger just don't acknowledge it. Telling the sotry of "what happened?!" or "what's wrong withyou?!" gets very old very quick. I just move right past the question.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Since we’re posting xrays.. L2 incomplete paraplegic,What is that bright white thing,A bullet. He got shot twicePosted Question, Comment, Reply
It’s best not to land on the bottom of 3 people off a deck...,damnn, that's some serious hardware. how are you doing?,I can walk but am in constant pain. Bowel and bladder. Good days and bad.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Apparently were posting our x-rays.,WOW!!!Apparently were posting our x-rays.,I'm glad mine aren't in my neck, excuse me I need to go clear my throat.,Well I've had two surgeries. One right when it happened and one back in 2018. Both times o couldn't eat solid food for about two weeks.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Anyone get a SCI frOm a medical procedure?,My dad did, actually. Back when open heart surgery was the normal way to do a bypass, they crushed several of the vertebrae in his neck and told him for months that all of his pain was normal. He finally got a doc to listen, they did an MRI and low and behold he had major damage. 

Because of his heart surgery they couldn’t replace it with bone from his hip, so they got it from the bone bank (which I didn’t know was a thing). He had pretty significant issues with his left arm as a result for the rest of his life. 

Sorry this happened to you, hopefully they can figure it out.,Hey, I am sorry about your dad. Sounds like he had 
a rough time. I never realized how many people are unfortunate victims of medical errors until this happened. I appreciate it though!Anyone get a SCI frOm a medical procedure?,Yup!

Had a selective dorsal rhizotomy with laminectomies all the way down from L1-S2 at the age of 4.

Diagnosed with Adhesive Arachnoiditis all over the site at 27.

Btw if you haven't been checked out for arachnoiditis you really should be with a history and symptom set like that. They sadly sound very familiar to me.,Yep I have been checked for that and even did IV Steroids to stop any potential clumping. I even sent my MRI to Dr. Tennant. 

I am sorry to hear you have AA. It’s a scary and tough diagnosis. Can ask about your symptom onset and progression?Anyone get a SCI frOm a medical procedure?,When they saw the MRI it still took them six months to figure out what it was.

They told me only 79 other people in the world have ever had a Thoracic tethered cord. T2-T7. Hundreds of punctures through both myelin sheaths with a partial sever where it was folded in half. Four inches of my cord eviscerated.

They said I was the only one known to ever have endured the tether for over 34 years. Every other known case had it untethered immediately following their accidents.

The tether got worse every year. I was shamed, shunned and beaten throughout childhood because everyone thought my pain episodes and flashes of paralysis for sheer attention-seeking.

Doctors insisted it could not have been done simply at the hands of abusive caregivers, nor was it a birth defect.

I am told it was done to me on purpose as part of a government experiment. I have no proof of that, just a lot of dots to connect. Just excruciating pain every day to remind me there is no answer or relief.,I had a tethered spinal cord at T1 as an adult due to complications from a failed spinal fusion for kyphosis. It took a decade for someone to figure out what was triggering arachnoid cysts to form at T8 and why I was slowly losing the ability to walk.

There was no government conspiracy or whatever, just bad luck. It would be easier to think there was a reason these things happened to me but sometimes bad things happen at random and it sucks but that’s all it is.Anyone get a SCI frOm a medical procedure?,May I ask if the symptoms are getting any better?,Unfortunately not at allPosted Question, Comment, Reply
It looks like this is pretty uncommon from other posts, but my surgeon came in through my side to install this "cage" to prevent my vertebrae from collapsing into my L1 burst fracture. T11-L3 fusion.,Got the same exact fusion and injury as you. Cage and all. PM me broPosted Question, Comment, Reply
C2-T1 decompression and fusion. You can see broken screws at the bottom.,Ouch!! Can you bend your head or us it stuck in me position?,This was done ten years ago this past June. I can't look up, but I can kinda look down. I can turn about 30 degrees in each direction. It's been so long I can't remember what it's like to be loose. I'm always stiff and sore. 

Here's a side view.  

[side view](http://imgur.com/a/IS25yJz),Actually, these pics are from 2010 where they stopped at C3. I had to go back a year later to get C2 taken care of, and while they were in there they shaved down the broken screws and confirmed that the C7-T1 was able to fuse. Looking down would still compress my cord so they wanted to open it on. 

Also had 2 lumbar surgeries but no metal.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
My x-ray is weak but I made up for it with my jaw,Yoi! Were you wired shut for a while?,Surprising no they did not have too, Just on soft (mush) foods for 6 weeks. They could not set it for the first 5 days after they did the spine just to make sure that was all sweet first so had it like that for about 6 days before they fixed it.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
My (66) Dad Recently Suffered an Incomplete SCI C3-C6 Fused,It is pretty common to have hospital induced Demetia if you’re older. Make sure they check for a UTI.  No easy solutions.,Thanks. The first thing we thought was UTI because my Babcia used to get completely disoriented when she had one. So far all physical causes are ruled out and they think he may be collapsing under the stress of the gravity of the situation. Hopefully the right blend of meds can get him back to himself and lucid.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Sharing photos? Here's mine! Pre-surgery Tethered Thoracic Cord. That's 4 inches of cord trapped between vertebrae.,I am hurt that no one responded to my post when everyone else was acknowledged. I'd hoped this was a place to feel included after a lifetime of my SCI isolating me. I've posted comments here and no one responds. It just hurts to be invisible to the one group I shouldn't have to feel alienated by.Sharing photos? Here's mine! Pre-surgery Tethered Thoracic Cord. That's 4 inches of cord trapped between vertebrae.,How did the surgery go?!,Biggest mistake of my life. Thanks for asking.Sharing photos? Here's mine! Pre-surgery Tethered Thoracic Cord. That's 4 inches of cord trapped between vertebrae.,My mistake, I thought you Posted this right before the operation :/ I guess that wouldn’t make total sense during a pandemic depending on where you are!

Chronic pain is difficult, it definitely is hard to find a lot of balance in life ... like what you can put your body through on a daily bases to still get out and enjoy life ... and not being too dependent on one substance so it still does the trick years later! 

I truly hope you’ve found a good life balance with your chronic pain :) 

I hope you live in  Canada so you can always try out new types of marijuana! :). I can’t do that, that stuff makes me paranoid :O,My state is legal & I'd be lost without my THC oil.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
My SCI. Osteomyelitis infection to the left. SCI to the right.,Its not supposed to bend like that is it???,The white line is the spinal cord. The disc between my vertebrae damaged it by smashing it. The Osteomyelitis is a bone/tissue eating infection that caused all this damagePosted Question, Comment, Reply
My submission to X-Ray Show and Tell,Happy cake day!My submission to X-Ray Show and Tell,Thank you!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Tips with spasms?,I would consider taking to your doc about a baclofen pump. It’s done wonders for me and I’ll answer any questions you might haveTips with spasms?,I couldn’t lay flat or drive over a small bump without kicking wildly. I just kept upping my baclofen dose until I was taking 180mg a day and it still wasn’t helping. I opted for the pump and it’s been a lifesaver. How much baclofen do you take?,I take about 180MG also. Im at the maximum dose and then i take three x a day dantreleen.Tips with spasms?,What meds are you on?,Baclofen and Dantreen. I sometimes take a flexoril at night.Tips with spasms?,Are your spasms painful?  I don’t have the normal everyday spasms I’ve seen with other SCI’s. Mine are more muscle contraction and pain, no shaking. And I only get them in my left quad. I would like to know if anyone else is dealing with this. I take Gabapentin regularly now. I have Baclofen sometimes at night before bed. Stopped taking Tizanidine cause it made me sleepy. Sorry I don’t have any help for your question.Tips with spasms?,Meds didn’t work for me.  I won’t take benzodiazepines, don’t tolerate baclofen and tizanidine was 3 years down a hole of drowsy floppy misery.  

My spasms are managed by exercise - I use an estim bike and a number of different estim devices (empi, intelect, chatanooga, compex - all brands made by the same company, donjoy), with varying levels of programs and versatility.  Stimulating the nerves and muscles has eliminated both sorts of spasticity (the rigidity and the rapid twitching/ticcing) and is also weirdly really good for my mood. 

CBD is really dependent on the rest of the cannabinoids to metabolize and be effective.  Most commercial cbd in the US is hemp derived, so the levels of other cannabinoids are minuscule meaning it takes much much more, and it’s expensive.  I have had significant success with topical cbd from low thc strains (I live in a state where it’s legal but my employer requires random negative tests, so can’t risk oral anything), which is still challenging to track down unless you’re growing your own, and then it needs extracted etc..Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I heard we were doing x-rays. My version of Heavy Metal 🤘,Pretty cool. One of my cervical screws actually is cracked!,Damn dude, how hard are you partying that you cracked a screw in your spine?I heard we were doing x-rays. My version of Heavy Metal 🤘,I’ve got one that’s bent and it freaked me out but doc says it’s okay. Donno.I heard we were doing x-rays. My version of Heavy Metal 🤘,Awesome!!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
What games do you play?,C5 here. I play XCOM 2, Civilization V and Hearthstone on PC.What games do you play?,C4/C5 complete. I mostly play CoD (non-mobile), AoE2: DE, and Borderlands 3. I find that there aren't many games that I can't play, so what I play is always changing.What games do you play?,I used to play lots of COD mobile when I was in inpatient rehab. Now I’m playing Warzone on Xbox, and Control, and games on Xbox game pass.What games do you play?,C2 C5/6 incomplete, and I basically play anything with rebindable controller support on PC and sometimes stuff with keyboard + mouse using a tablet and pen as the mouse input.What games do you play?,Anybody play starcraft? I used to play before my injury but I haven't tried it yet.What games do you play?,I'm a t12.  I haven't gamed since I was in my teens.  I'd like to get back into racing games.. Mario Kart, Indy Stimulation, etc.  Also, I've learned to fly drones and want to get into drone racing.  Gotta get a PC I guess!What games do you play?,Anyone plays Fortnite?What games do you play?,T6 incomplete. Currently playing Zelda Breath of the Wild on the SwitchPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Parenting as a Wheelchair User,It’s not on reddit but there is a great fb support group for parents with disabilities and another one called moms with mobility impairments,Thank you! We have connected with a number of groups on FB. I will check out Moms with Mobility Impairments.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
What is the right way to take care of your skin?,The Spinal Injuries Association in the UK has a pretty good guide to taking care of your skin: 

 [https://www.spinal.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/Skin](https://www.spinal.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/Skin)What is the right way to take care of your skin?,I currently have almost the same issue. Although, I’ve been injured a lot longer and I’m currently on bed rest at home getting up once or twice a week so I don’t lose too much muscle mass or movement for mental health. Everything is healing steadily, after six weeks about 30% healed. I typically stay up for 16 hours a day and will have to increase pressure relief in the future and take more rest. The cushion needs to be assessed by a pressure clinic.What is the right way to take care of your skin?,I had a pretty bad sore on my hip/butt cheek a few years ago, likely started from a zit that got infected. Not nearly as bad as yours, but it took about 6 months to a year to fully heal. For many of us it's tough to see the back of us, and because of this it's our responsibility to voice to those helping us the importance of communication of issues that even seem minor. 

I was not on full bed rest, but I spent a lot more time in bed. I also sleep and lay in bed on my stomach. To deal with mine, I'd spend the first few hours of my day, about 3 hours out of bed. This included my routine of stretching, BM, and eating. I'd then get back in bed for 4-5 hours, on my stomach. Back in my chair for a couple hours in the evening maybe 3ish hours, to eat/do whatever, then back in bed for the night. The time in my chair I'd try to do almost excessive pressure relief. 

It took some time but this worked for me. I saw a wound care specialist at a local hospital once a week for a few months early on. I cleaned the wound and put new dressings on it 2-3 times a week, don't use hydrogen peroxide or harsh cleaners. I was told to use regular hand soap/water.

I am by no means suggesting to ignore doctors, or say every one of them lacks experience. That being said I often feel many GPs don't deal with quads on a regular, and you should consider asking for a specialist referral if you feel it's relevant.

Best of luck, being in bed all day isn't ideal, but pressure sores are a long term heal for many of us with sitting and poor circulation.What is the right way to take care of your skin?,http://www.thespinalfoundation.org/skin-care-best-practices/ this is the standard guideline that we follow in India. Many peer trainers /peer mentors use this as guidelines for skin care approach. This should be something, you should be adopting into your daily life.

Grade 3 ulcers: to start with, stop any sittings, follow the log rolling position change rule, every 2 hrs. Never lie supine, always prone, on your stomach. At least until the sore heals. Leave the sore area aerated preferably covered with just a cloth. I know for lower grade ulcers and what we need to do. I had grade 1 ulcers, a couple of times, I stopped sitting except for my bowel program. And in 14 days it healed. I used to clean the ulcer with saline water. But for grade 3,i dont know. Let me check and get back. I will share what we recommend in India. And you can follow something similar. If it is something that you can adopt.

Skin care routine, day in day out check with a mirror or at least thrice a week check the buttocks area, near the balls, lower spine, under thigh for skin condition. Use coconut oil or body lotion. I use vaseline body lotion and amply apply in these areas where pressure sore is more likely, i.e. Buttocks and under thigh. Strictly follow the push up policy every 20 or 30 mins while sitting on wheelchair. By push up I mean, hold my wheels and lift my body for 15-20 seconds. Of course I am a a paraplegic. My friend who is a quad, I think c5-c6, he relieves the pressure by moving sideways (as much as he can). He also uses a cushion to sit and never sits on hard surfaces. It's always some for of soft surface.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Pushing through like a beast. 3 years post injury L1 burst incomplete (other broken bones too). Just posting to show my progress and maybe inspire someone else to keep going. Thanks to my wife I’m never stopping.,Your form looks solid, engaging those hip flexors and quads to move that leg up instead of swinging it around.

Keep at it! Your hard work is inspiring - cheers,Thanks so very much.Pushing through like a beast. 3 years post injury L1 burst incomplete (other broken bones too). Just posting to show my progress and maybe inspire someone else to keep going. Thanks to my wife I’m never stopping.,Hell yeah bud

Fuck some stairs up for me!,🙌🏻Pushing through like a beast. 3 years post injury L1 burst incomplete (other broken bones too). Just posting to show my progress and maybe inspire someone else to keep going. Thanks to my wife I’m never stopping.,Awesome job! Keep on keeping on. The moment we stop, it’s the moment we shut down.,Thx. AgreedPushing through like a beast. 3 years post injury L1 burst incomplete (other broken bones too). Just posting to show my progress and maybe inspire someone else to keep going. Thanks to my wife I’m never stopping.,Awesome! Congrats on the hard work and dedication! I’m hopefully going to start gait training soon when my quads are a little stronger! Can’t wait to put in the hard work like you!Pushing through like a beast. 3 years post injury L1 burst incomplete (other broken bones too). Just posting to show my progress and maybe inspire someone else to keep going. Thanks to my wife I’m never stopping.,Fuck yeah man keep it going!!!!Pushing through like a beast. 3 years post injury L1 burst incomplete (other broken bones too). Just posting to show my progress and maybe inspire someone else to keep going. Thanks to my wife I’m never stopping.,Looking good!Pushing through like a beast. 3 years post injury L1 burst incomplete (other broken bones too). Just posting to show my progress and maybe inspire someone else to keep going. Thanks to my wife I’m never stopping.,Heck yeah bro! I remember going up my first set of stairs and my God it was pretty scary. Cheers to pushing the limit🤘🏼Pushing through like a beast. 3 years post injury L1 burst incomplete (other broken bones too). Just posting to show my progress and maybe inspire someone else to keep going. Thanks to my wife I’m never stopping.,Nothing but respect man!Pushing through like a beast. 3 years post injury L1 burst incomplete (other broken bones too). Just posting to show my progress and maybe inspire someone else to keep going. Thanks to my wife I’m never stopping.,Rock those weak a$$ stairs.Pushing through like a beast. 3 years post injury L1 burst incomplete (other broken bones too). Just posting to show my progress and maybe inspire someone else to keep going. Thanks to my wife I’m never stopping.,Wooo!! Fantastic progress dude 👏Pushing through like a beast. 3 years post injury L1 burst incomplete (other broken bones too). Just posting to show my progress and maybe inspire someone else to keep going. Thanks to my wife I’m never stopping.,Well done!! I remember after my kyphosis surgery a few years ago I couldn't walk for about a week and my right leg was completely numb and I could barely put any pressure on it. After about 7 days in hospital I had to walk down some steps so I could get the blood moving in my leg. I was shaking like leaf and I had to hold onto about 3 people and the banister, but when I finally managed to walk down a few I started crying because after 7 days I was seeing progress. Again, well done sir!!!!!Pushing through like a beast. 3 years post injury L1 burst incomplete (other broken bones too). Just posting to show my progress and maybe inspire someone else to keep going. Thanks to my wife I’m never stopping.,Excellent work! Stairs are a beast - you should be proud!

If I may ask, are you wearing some sort of brace on your legs? If so, what kind and do they help mitigate spasms? 

I ask because my husband's biggest obstacle in walking again (besides getting the right prosthesis - lost his left leg when he was injured) is spasms in his "good" leg. He got a good rhythm down on his first prosthetic leg, but his right leg will spasm unpredictably and send him to the floor. His physical therapist has basically said that's the only thing holding him back from progressing with walking.Pushing through like a beast. 3 years post injury L1 burst incomplete (other broken bones too). Just posting to show my progress and maybe inspire someone else to keep going. Thanks to my wife I’m never stopping.,I have “toe off” carbon fiber braces on both legs. They help walking as they essentially take the place of my calf muscles ( as I understand it). They do not help with spasms other than the more I’m up walking and exercising, the less frequent they are. Hope this helps.Pushing through like a beast. 3 years post injury L1 burst incomplete (other broken bones too). Just posting to show my progress and maybe inspire someone else to keep going. Thanks to my wife I’m never stopping.,VERY good.

What most people don't realize is that only some of the needed muscles are working, other muscles are working but have limited function as only part of the muscle is receiving signals, while others are getting the wrong signals. It takes us at least 300% more energy to perform tasks like this than the average human. I tell people to imagine that they are wearing a backpack with 200 or 300 lbs in it. Not just for a few minutes until they get tired or it gets hard to do...all day.Pushing through like a beast. 3 years post injury L1 burst incomplete (other broken bones too). Just posting to show my progress and maybe inspire someone else to keep going. Thanks to my wife I’m never stopping.,ExactlyPushing through like a beast. 3 years post injury L1 burst incomplete (other broken bones too). Just posting to show my progress and maybe inspire someone else to keep going. Thanks to my wife I’m never stopping.,from a c4-5 incomplete who thankfully had a decent recovery. keep it up! this is amazing to see!!!Pushing through like a beast. 3 years post injury L1 burst incomplete (other broken bones too). Just posting to show my progress and maybe inspire someone else to keep going. Thanks to my wife I’m never stopping.,Huge effort! Amazing! That's great T-shirtPushing through like a beast. 3 years post injury L1 burst incomplete (other broken bones too). Just posting to show my progress and maybe inspire someone else to keep going. Thanks to my wife I’m never stopping.,Thx. I thought so tooPosted Question, Comment, Reply
That’s a lot of steel in my back. But life does get easier keep on pushing and working at life.,oooo that looks a lot like my back! Did they also fuse you?,Yes they did.That’s a lot of steel in my back. But life does get easier keep on pushing and working at life.,Ah you beat me, I only have 10 screws but I have a rather large bolt in my pelvis.That’s a lot of steel in my back. But life does get easier keep on pushing and working at life.,T5 complete for life bro! *fistbump*That’s a lot of steel in my back. But life does get easier keep on pushing and working at life.,Paralysis?,Yes T5 complete.That’s a lot of steel in my back. But life does get easier keep on pushing and working at life.,Nice! Kinda looks like mine 😃,It could be yours. Or anybody's. Only one thing is certain - it ain't T5CompleteLiz's.That’s a lot of steel in my back. But life does get easier keep on pushing and working at life.,OuchPosted Question, Comment, Reply
As long as we are posting our cool X-rays, check out this cool bridge I have now instead of my L1(non-recoverable burst)!,Great. I’m an L1 (3 years out) and walk a bit with a walker but building my hamstrings and glutes is taking forever. The numbness and sensitivity I experienced took about 6 months to subside as the swelling around the surgery site and spinal cord went down. Good luck.As long as we are posting our cool X-rays, check out this cool bridge I have now instead of my L1(non-recoverable burst)!,Wow crazy!  How long ago?  What’s your current prognosis regarding paralysis and mobility?,About 5 months ago now.  By some sort of miracle I was off the walker by week 3 and I am fairly independently mobile right now.  Still a lot of numbness and/or pain from knees to nips, but every day is a bit better.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Research Study on SCI,My late wife died from ALS in January 2010.  I often thought about suicide after her death. Our daughter was 12 when her mom (my wife and best friend) died.  Knowing that I had a 12 year old daughter who lost her mother to ALS got me through 2010 to 2017. if I died, our daughter would have lost both of her parents.

My spinal cord injury took place inside a hospital in September 2017. I certainly contemplated suicide after I came home from 67 days in the hospital.  

 I walked into the ER with a sharp pain in my right side. They told me that I was constipated. A higher power got me admitted to the hospital where I languished for five days, unable to move my legs, urinate on my own or have a poop on my own.

On day 5, they tried to give me an MRI.  There were major complications. I pleaded for a CT Scan at around 1 AM.  When the Radiologist read my CT, he said "There is compression on the cord."  That is like yelling "Fire" in a theatre. I underwent an emergency six hour surgery on my vertebrae so that they could cut the bone closest to the skin on my back, remove the bone (spinous process) and scrape out the pus.  I had to have a second operation where they opened up the old operation and took off more bone in my lumbar region.

A few days later, I went into full cardiac arrest for 6-7 minutes.  I suffered major brain damage from no oxygen to my brain for 6-7 minutes. They got my heart started.  They put a stent in the right coronary artery. I was having seizures. They put me into a coma and on life support for four days. They installed a heart assist pump in my descending aorta to take some of the load off of my heart..  When I woke up after four days on a ventilator, I ripped the hoses going into me out of my body. They tied my hands to the bed rail. I pleaded with them to untie my hands. They would not do that for some time.

They sent me to an inpatient rehab hospital.  At the rehab hospital, I could not move my body to get out of bed.  I fell out of my bed and a very loud bed alarm went off and all the nurses and staff came running into my room.

Over time, the rehab staff taught me how to transfer myself from my hospital bed to a wheelchair.  I learned how to move out of the wheel chair onto a shower chair.  They started to reteach me how to walk using a walker.  They tested my aptitude and told me that I was in the 10th percentile.  They said that my brain was so damaged that I would never be able to comprehend what had happened to me.

When I got home, I was in a wheel chair. I was really depressed and thought often about the best way to kill myself.  I did not want to shoot myself. What if I missed?  (This happens.)

I decided a plastic bag over my head with a tank of helium going through a hose into the inside of my plastic bag was the best route.   I had a tank of helium in my work shed.

I ditched the wheelchair and bought the tallest walker I could buy.  It is called a Rollator.

I will have to insert a catheter to pee each time I need to drain my bladder for the rest of my life. I will use enemas for the rest of my life to take a poop.  I flush water up my anus to help the feces come out.

My spinal cord injury cut off the blood supply to my urogenital nerves. I could have sex the night before I walked into the ER.  My SCI caused me to become impotent.

After I got home from the hospital, I used to look at a particular light in our house and think about the best way of killing myself.  What kept me from killing myself was the fact that our daughter was now 19 and she still needed a dad.

I relearned how to walk and graduated from the Rollator to a cane. I fall occasionally. I have relearned how to drive a car.

I am 68. I still work full time.  I met a nice lady on Match in 2012, two years after my wife's death from ALS.  What keeps me going?  What keeps me going. The fact that my heart stopped for 6-7 minutes made me think that I must have a purpose in life.

What keeps me from contemplating suicide anymore.  The reasons for me to not kill myself are my daughter (now 23), my GF, my job and our dog.

I go fishing by myself in my 22 foot center console boat to a fishing hole that is 50 miles out into the Gulf of Mexico. I usually go fishing 50 miles offshore by myself.  If the seas are running 3-4 feet, it takes me three hours to get to the 50 mile-offshore fishing hole.

I have bought a lot of safety gear that I keep in my boat. I always wear an inflatable life jacket and if the outboard motor is running, the kill switch lanyard is attached to my life jacket.

If the seas are still up when it is dark and it is time for me to start the motor and drive the boat back to the boat ramp, the ride back will still take me three hours.  I am looking at buying a satellite phone as there is no cell phone coverage 50 miles from land (out in the Gulf of Mexico). I hope that my employer will let me work until I am 73.  I find meaning in my work.  I find meaning in my relationships with my daughter, my GF and our loyal dog.

If I ever decide to take my life, out on a solo fishing trip will be a great way to go.

I don't know if any of this makes any sense. Thank you for reading my wandering thoughts.,50 miles is 80.47 kmPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Online dating seems impossible,I've been paralyzed C6/C7 for over 2 years now. I've started dating my girlfriend right after the accident,  while I was in hospital.  2 yeare in and I cant wait to be single again. I know it's different for everyone and I'm still dealing with the stress and anxiety but my personal opinion is you have to first find piece within yourself before you start dating again. Here is couple of things that worked for me to get out of very dark places I was falling into:
1. Try to always stay busy reading, audio books, video games(harder for quads but doable)
2. Have a goal to learn something new and master it, sense of accomplishment after sci is enormously important for mental health. I've heard hot to bake sourdough, cook with limited hand function. I've just started reading about photography and most importantly I'm growning out my beard that requires daily maintenance:)
3. Have something to look forward to. New hobby/activity scheduled for the week end. I've never been a fan of mma before but now Saturday is a fight night for me I get excited following pre fight interviews and keeping track of Twitter interactions.  This works for me for you might be a Saturday meet up with friends, game night, cook or something that grabs your interest. 
4. When I first got injured people told me to give it 2-3 years and it will get better. I didn't believe them. But time does heal a little bit, and with sci little bit relief can be huge. I still have days when I let myself grief but I can see what they meant. 
5. When you feel really down take deep breath and concentrate on breathing. I know it sound silly but breathing exercises do miracles for me.

Honestly there's a lot of things that might work for you. Every injury is different and we all deal with it differently. My advice is find some balance on your own, allow yourself time to heal and only then start dating. Maybe by that time pandemic will be no more🤗Online dating seems impossible,You've only been at it for a few days?  Patience is needed here.  Online dating means you've got to play the long game.  It takes a while to get matches, and then to move from online to actual in-person dates, then you might have a handful of first dates before you even get second dates.

You may get someone who expresses interest online, maybe sends you messages, but it never moves to real-life dating.  This is very common. Or you may have a good first text conversation with someone who then blocks your number.  Or you may have a first date with someone that goes well and then never have another.  It's all part of dating, unfortunately.

It's easy for us to blame this on our disability, and in some cases, we may be right...but honestly, this is all part of dating for just about everyone.  I'm not saying that we as wheelchair users don't experience a special type of bullshit when it comes to finding partners, I'm just saying that you shouldn't put every instance of rejection down to your chair. Some people are just dicks...some are crazy, or rude, or immature...and sometimes it IS you.  Or maybe you're just not compatible. Don't focus on your chair so much that you become blind to the other things that are going on.Online dating seems impossible,One of you guys asked for my Tinder Profile. I accidentally rejected your DM. Please send a I'm agien oopsieOnline dating seems impossible,I met my boyfriend on match. We’ve been dating 2 years now. I’ve heard good things about hinge as well. It took me using dating apps on and off for about 3 1/2 years before I met him. I had gone on dates and was seeing some people but never anything serious. My advice is don’t date to try and make yourself feel better. You need to be good before you involve yourself with someone else. I chose not to date for 5 years after my injury cause I wasn’t comfortable with myself.Online dating seems impossible, I paid for Tinder  this month all I got was spam. Anyone want to help me with my Tinder profile DM me.Online dating seems impossible,If you’re over 30, there are a few subs that will help: r/datingoverthirty, r/datingoverforty, and r/datingprofilesover30 to get feedback on your profile. There are also subs for Bumble and OKCupid (and Tinder but honestly that’s all guys complaining how they never get matches and giving each other terrible advice. 

It’s pretty normal for guys to get fewer matches than women. It’s early days so far, so don’t stress too much. Hinge is slower than Tinder, which makes sense because it’s more relationships focused. I’m a fan of OKC but to be honest it’s also quite slow - I just like that you can have a virtually endless profile. I tend to get fewer but better quality matches there. You should probably know that Match was sued by the FTC for listing fake profiles to make the service seem more popular: https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/press-releases/2019/09/ftc-sues-owner-online-dating-service-matchcom-using-fake-loveOnline dating seems impossible,I have had a surprising amount of success, I have a new date today, and it started when I just started being totally honest in my profile and then conversation. I explain what happened, what that means, and what may be different if someone dates me. Sometimes people balk, but that is okay because it would not have worked out. Persistence is key. Also, it's hard but learning bit tot take any of it personally has helped me.Online dating seems impossible,Why do you say online dating is your only option?,I don’t go out much anymore except to restaurants and the movies. I liked hanging out at bars before my accident, but now I don’t feel entirely comfortable going. Not only cause of the wheelchair, but my bladder issues force me to wear a diaper. So all that combined just stresses me out. But also I’ve never been one to approach and certainly not now. I guess it’s something I need to work on..Online dating seems impossible,I dated online once for about 8 months and I can tell you this:

Now is a bad time to start.

There are two sides, of course, it's painful for me to look back on it, and the details are fuzzy, but I attribute one of the reasons it fizzled out is because we didn't meet together in person once. It's something you don't realize the importance of until you can't have it. It's the little things like kissing, cuddling, holding hands, and sharing moments together instead of relating them over Skype. Sometimes it's emotionally overwhelming. With the pandemic, who knows how long it'll be before you can safely meet them irl.

My advice is don't look for a partner right now; look for a friend. Find someone you can talk to, even better a group. Then when this pandemic is over you can consider a relationship. If it's with your new friend, then you can meet freely without the strain of having no physical contact. If it's someone else, you still have a friend you can rely on.

Good luck out there.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Anyone feel like a road trip?,Today I took a road trip.  I live in California  12 min away from downtown San Francisco.

I rented a car from Getaround for several hours in the A.M. I cruise by Pier 39/ Fisherman's Wharf I stopped by Safeway grocery store for snacks. Found a place I can people-watch at the Embarcadero ate my snacks and came back home to sleep.

This was a short trip I know but I dislike long road trips I get so tired and cranky.,This is beautifulAnyone feel like a road trip?,love road trips, what are you doing,Ohio to Florida at leastAnyone feel like a road trip?,Love a good road trip. Where to?,U tell me I'm in ohioAnyone feel like a road trip?,I’m about 13 hours from you, but I love a good road trip. 

I want to build out a van and travel the country.,I wanna build out a car!!Anyone feel like a road trip?,[deleted],I'll be going toward colorado with dog and kittyAnyone feel like a road trip?,I'll be going toward colorado with dog and kittyPosted Question, Comment, Reply
T5 Complete Spinal Cord Injury,Don't anybody believe this bullshit.  This alt-account is posting pics of Christina Vithoulkas and posting them as her own.  This whole story is concocted.  Good to see the mods pull all of "her" picture posts.

Now to just remove this one as well.

And going into T5CompleteLiz's profile is comical.  All of those subs asking for sympathy and coming off as the hero. 

Wow. What an asshole.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Looking to Donate SCI Equipment,Edit: I'm in Columbus, OHPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Research study for women with SCI,Why women? I feel like my anatomy qualifies,There be are many questions that only apply to women (child birth, especially).,We are interested in how pregnancy impacts the urogenital and bowel health of women with SCI, because they deserve to have evidence-based, credible information to make an informed decision before they decide to get pregnant or know what they may expect if they are pregnant!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Periods post injury,I'm a c4 and I use a menstrual cup. It has a steep learning curve, but once you get used it it, it's amazing. It gives you a real idea of how much your bleeding so you can keep track of that. I can wear mine for about 8 hours before I need to empty it.Periods post injury,L5/S1 incomplete, and I can use tampons just fine. Make sure they are in the right direction (extension of your finger). An applicator should help with insertion (never used one myself, but my sister is an applicator-fan). Change them every 4-6 hours, and you should be fine leakage wise. I have far more leakage problems with pads.

Maybe a menstral cup is something you could look into. It requires a lower insertion than tampons, and it's soft. So that might be easier for you.Periods post injury,I'm t7 and I use them fine. You'll get used to using them as you go. If you are worried about leaks maybe get some of those period pants or use a liner at the same time for a bit?  Also leaks do happen to everyone occasionally even without a spinal injury so don't worry about it too much.Periods post injury,T11 and I use them all the time. Even prior to injury I didn’t feel tampons very much as they’re meant to be comfortable and unobtrusive. I find them less likely to leak than pads.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
My boyfriend recently got into an accident and has a SCI. I Just wanted some advice on how to go about things.,Incomplete C4/5 Quad, walking unassisted. I was in rehab for 3 months, which was the maximum time given. No-one was with me full-time but I had visitors daily. I took another month of outpatient rehab and volunteered for 2 spinal cord research programs for another 6-8 weeks at the local university which indirectly gave me more rehab time. 

I'm sure it's different in each city and country. Ask lots of questions. 

The goal is to help get your bf as independent as he can be.  Ask if he needs help but chances are that he'll want to do as much by himself because regaining independence is a huge part of healing both mentally and physically. 

Stay positive. Plan for the worse, hope for the best. Millions of disabled persons live their best lives daily. I wrote and posted about my experience, so you're both welcomed to read about my mindset, what helped me recover, and life post injury.

Best of luck to you both!,Holy shit, I just read your post about your injury and im literally in the the same fuckin boat. I got shot 17 years ago in the back, it bounced off my scapula and hit c5-c7. I was told I'd never walk. I spent 5 months in the shepherd center and 2 months outpatient, and walked out with a bad limp and very little use of my right hand.,Thanks for the advice!My boyfriend recently got into an accident and has a SCI. I Just wanted some advice on how to go about things.,T10, 10 yrs. Can recollect the day I traveled to rehab from my city, roughly 100miles away. What is a must, is to ensure proper rehab with really strong support staff i.e. involved physiotherapist and occupational therapist. Identifying and going to rehab is first quarter of the job well done. Goal oriented therapy should be given, period is usually 3 months and one can come to rehab as out patient or checkin again for a couple of weeks, to hone the skills.

Right now, the only question would be "why me?" focus should be to move the mindset to "ok now what OR next what". Focus on what's needed to be done and you should encourage him to do things independently. Confidence would have gone for a toss. 

These 3 months in rehab is to get into action and gain back confidence and will power.

In India, in the rehab I went to, it is mandatory for wife or mother to stay along. A studio apartment is provided where the patient and the care taker gets handson experience on how to lead the life after Sci. 3 months down, I was back living in my city. And 20 days down I started working, gradually increasing the sitting hrs.

I had a great accommodative workplace when I got back. In my country rehab can't be reimbursed sadly, but in USA you can. I wouldn't be able to comment on short & long term disability insurance being provided by workplace. However I did hear insurance covers wheelchair too. Companies also have medical benefits which cover it, if it's a multinational company the likely hood of wheelchair benefit could be high. 

Little things is to each his own, I probably really never focused or thought about it. But my friends visited periodically, relatives too! I flirted with my therapist too! I had a great mentor right next room to mine (25+ yrs with SCI now). He got admitted for a completely different reason. And I probably think he too had a great role to play in my outlook towards life after SCI. 

A few important little things that do pop up:
1. Ideally every 20 mins a push up for 30 seconds. However I would recommend every 10 minutes, a push-up for 30 seconds. I did for 7-8 yrs, this saves Sci from pressure sores in buttocks, or under thighs. Off late reduced, since I do a lot of household chores. Lying in prone position, if he doesn't change his position every 2hrs. 
2. Proper intake of fluid at regular intervals. 
3. Sticking to a regime / schedule. This will help body adjust and settle down later down in life. Speaking from experience. Starting from bowel routine to peeing routine. 
4. As a wheelchair user, should build strong upper body strength. 
5. Leaks and bowel accidents will happen, if regime is not properly followed, and if they do. He shouldn't beat himself down or feel regret. Sometimes shit happens (literally). 
6. Be as a support model and encourager to do things independently and you shouldn't help. However in case you realize he isn't safe, jump in. 
7. Stay away from stem cell. 
8. As a couple, talk to doctor about sex, love, and being a partner and understand how. After SCI, one of the major issues is no erection(in few cases). Should be dealt before its leaves a deep scar. I am not sure, how it would be for his level of injury.
9. Take care of yourself emotionally cuz there will be a lot of venting out. Frustration.
10. Get a proper seating cushion. One cannot avoid sores even if proper cushion is used. Which is why pushups. Pushup meaning, lifting the body up, increasing blood flow to lower part of the body.

I tried to be comprehensive here. Much info available for me to finish with just 10 🙂My boyfriend recently got into an accident and has a SCI. I Just wanted some advice on how to go about things.,1. I went to a rehabilitation center in the country where I live and it was very bad, the physical therapists werent doing their job well and kept looking at the time to move onto the next patient. 

Then I went to Poland where the physical therapy was very intense as it should be. I was doing PT for around 6 hours a day.

He should be doing as much PT as possible for the first 6-24 months as that's when most progress happens. 

I stayed at the center in Poland for about 3 months, then went back home and had a PT visit me almost daily for a year and a half for around 3 hours a day to do as much PT as possible. 

I cant stress this enough but make him do AS MUCH PT  as possible. 



2. The little things u can do is support him and motivate him to keep doing PT even if he starts to burn out. Be there for him and help him.




I wish you the best of luck!,I'm not sure, that doing as much pt as possible is for everyone... I was doing what you suggest, and i'm almost like before accident, but have a friend who was doing 20 30 mins a day and walking normally, surfing, hiking. It's different for everyone, you need time to rest as well, you can't make nerve growing faster. Im l1 15 month after injury, max pt i did is 2 hours a day, mostly 1 1 and a half hour, and have hope to be like i was before. 
Also i'd suggest meditation, that you can do as much as possible, and lion's mane mushroom is very useful.My boyfriend recently got into an accident and has a SCI. I Just wanted some advice on how to go about things.,Hi there, first off it's completely normal to be a little lost and feel overwhelmed in this situation. The most important part of the process right now is to make sure your boyfriend has a proper support system in place from a medical and family/friend perspective. Sounds like he is being taken care of on both fronts which is a great start to his path to recovery.

One question, did the doctor mention if his injury is complete or incomplete? This distinction is a starting point to begin setting expectations for his path to recovery. 

My personal stay at inpatient rehab for an incomplete t4 injury was 1 month. Thankfully I was at a center that specialized in SCI so the level of attention I received was tremendous. In hindsight, I wish I asked for additional time at rehab, the more work, and gains you can make immediately after an injury is only to your benefit. My recommendation would be to take full advantage of what is available to you from an insurance perspective. Work with your PT therapists and doctors to fight for additional time if needed. Also, during his time in rehab it's important he has emotional support - it will be filled with highs and lows. As I went through the emotional roller coaster I was fortunate to have my wife by my side. She wasn't with me 24/7 but would stop by before and after work to spend a few hours with me. On the weekends we had the chance to spend more time together and I had friends visit which was encouraging.  Additionally, I suspect your BF may need assistance with some personal hygiene - I imagine he would rather have you assist in this regard.

Overall - you and your BF will get through this. Along the way make sure you also take care of yourself, don't feel like you need to do everything for him or you will get burnt out along the way. 

Wishing you and him the best,Thanks, it started off as what seemed to be a complete but ended up being incomplete. He was able to slightly move his feet around for me yesterday. It was only a small twitch but he couldn't even feel them before the initial surgery. I appreciate the advice :). I already assured him I can take care of the personal hygiene aspects.My boyfriend recently got into an accident and has a SCI. I Just wanted some advice on how to go about things.,Rehab took me like a week.

Just let him tell u when he needs help

There are programs at community action. Always ask for the home improvement ones. 20k in assistance in Ohio

It's not hard to adjust. Just love him like b4 nothing has to change unless you 2 decide it does.My boyfriend recently got into an accident and has a SCI. I Just wanted some advice on how to go about things.,Couple quick ones:
-Get off pain medications as soon as you can.
-Avoid Gabapentin if possible
-Get second opinion, a lot of doctors unfortunately are not on top of their game.
-Make sure he gets good sleep and healthy diet, very very important for recovery and is overlooked in a lot of rehabs.,He hates being on pain meds. He's on morphine and doesn't like it at all. He will be off as soon as they let him so no worries in that department. I don't think they prescribed him gabapentin but, I'll double check. No complaints about the doctors, they're very optimistic about his condition and he's improving at an astounding rate. I'll still be cautious in that regard though. Thanks!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Henna Tattooed Instructions For My Surgeon (Stage 4 Ulcer On Tailbone),My wife is a surgical technician and she got a good laugh out of this.,Yeah it's gonna be great! I'm not going to tell anyone about it. Then they'll knock me out and flip me over and see the instructions.Henna Tattooed Instructions For My Surgeon (Stage 4 Ulcer On Tailbone),I love this. Good luck in surgery!Henna Tattooed Instructions For My Surgeon (Stage 4 Ulcer On Tailbone),Omg this is hysterical. Please report back and let us know what they say. Good luck to you!,I'll keep you posted! Thanks for the positive vibes!Henna Tattooed Instructions For My Surgeon (Stage 4 Ulcer On Tailbone),**The pacemaker goes inside the other patient**Henna Tattooed Instructions For My Surgeon (Stage 4 Ulcer On Tailbone),Lol 😆 so sorry about the ulcer. Love that attitude.Henna Tattooed Instructions For My Surgeon (Stage 4 Ulcer On Tailbone),How did it go?,It went great! The recovery is 4 weeks in a sand bed which is a little dreadful. But the surgeon had a great response towards the henna tattoo. Here's what she did... https://imgur.com/a/HbV4XVbHenna Tattooed Instructions For My Surgeon (Stage 4 Ulcer On Tailbone),Hilarious! Keep your spirits up and good luck with it all!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Does anyone else suffer from Allodynia?,Great post. My own experience is that my practitioners have often casually referred to this as "nerve pain," or discomfort different than musculo-skeletal pain (in an attempt to get me to describe it vs. label it). At onset in 2014  (T2-4) I definitely had all 3, over time it is now mainly thermal. Temperature, dewpoint & humidity, as well as hot or cold water when bathing or swimming all can wreak havoc. I have tried gabapentin and Lyrica and their ilk to no avail- along with a list of others too long to include but probably mirror yours. Opiates work the best across the board for the different types of pain (including allodynia), though there is always the big "*" attached to that route of treatment. Having family & support is even better and it sounds like you have that covered! Good for you.,I am a T2-6 , C3-6 neck fusion with a new cyst at T6-9. I have had 9 total surgeries.Does anyone else suffer from Allodynia?,Great post, hadn’t heard nerve pains “true”name before. 
What does the Oculus Go do?,There are a couple of programs within it that are my go to. I go an swim with the dolphins or manatees for a bit or I use a meditation program. Our brains cannot do to things at once so immersion in VR helps break the pain cycle.,It is a VR Helmet that breaks the pain cycle when you use immersive programs. I put the helmet and and go swim with dolphins or manatees. There is also a meditation program I use. After about 15 mins my pain gets low enough that I can take the helmet off and pain has gone from 8+ to about a 3.Does anyone else suffer from Allodynia?,I have mostly recovered from my injury, but i still suffer from this from time to time... it could be weather related or occur in the frozen food isle in the grocery store. 
I had hyperstimulation in the hospital. A doctors tie brushed up against me once and I screamed and he insisted he didn’t touch me... but then looked down and saw his tie. 
This confirm blows. Light touches on my left arm are still painful, but whack me in it and I’m fine. So strange.Does anyone else suffer from Allodynia?,Well I've never put a name to it but yeah I just live with it. It's gotten better but I have to sleep with a heating pad on my ribs.Does anyone else suffer from Allodynia?,Yes to all of the above. It varies from day to day. Some days these feelings are more intense and painful. My physician prescribed a lotion that is mixed by a specialty pharmacy it includes crushed up depakote, and anticonvulsant, lidocaine and some other meds. I also take Lyrica 150mg twice a day. Fabric can not bother me one day, or one moment. Then it can start causing immense pain the next. Same with a watch, ring, or necklace. Temperatures can set me off too. Things that are too cold feel like electrical shocks. Things that are too hot feel like razorblades slicing through my body. In addition I take a mega B vitamin. Higher doses of thiamine are known to help with nerve pain. I can’t say for certain that it helps, but every physician and mid level has recommended it.,Your description of razorblades slicing is exactly what mine feels like at times. Feels like my skin is stretched to capacity.Does anyone else suffer from Allodynia?,C1 quadriplegic here I definitely suffer from this. the very same thing mentioned when in the shower or time to put on my clothes brushing my hair or washing my face that trigger. Everything that touches the top of my head or hair or anything around my jawline or ears set off a bunch of nerves that I can't bare,Wow, that would make getting up and going much harder. So sorry. Mine is torso as my injuries are T2-T6.Does anyone else suffer from Allodynia?,I have hyperalgesia on the (more) affected side. Any pain sensation is significantly more unpleasant on that side, or things that normally would not reach the threshold to be registered as pain suddenly are.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HyperalgesiaDoes anyone else suffer from Allodynia?,Yes! I never knew this had a specific name. This sub is so legit, thank you for your post. Similar to your experience, whenever I tried describe the pain, I was told it was "nerve pain from a spinal cord injury." 

The pain I have occurs in my left thigh, it is about a 7 or 8 and lasts anywhere from 30 seconds to 10 minutes. It is enough pain that having a conversation is difficult to impossible.

Occasionally the pain I experience travels down to my left foot and kind of shakes out? Not sure how to describe it, but if that does not occur, it just bounces from my foot to my thigh over and over until I go to sleep.

My triggers: fans, vibration (car rides), and cold.,I have my rt leg and thigh that get what I would call electric shock. I have always had it called nerve pain as well, but through research I discovered the true name for it. It least gives us a starting point by being able label it.Does anyone else suffer from Allodynia?,T1-T5 injuries and incomplete sever. I have all three and a range of other kinds of pain too. I gave up the Gabapentin and then Lyrica because it was very little relief in exchange for having to take pills 24/7.

I can't handle much touching and I can only wear loose flowing dresses that are large enough to barely touch my skin. Had to give up underwear years ago. Had to give up therapeutic massage and touch therapies. It's pretty wretched. But I don't need to tell any of you that.,I tried so many meds. The only that has given me a bit of relief is Gabapentin. I take 700 mg in A.M., 700 at midday and 900 at night. Mine seems to trigger more at night.Does anyone else suffer from Allodynia?,Thank you so much for this information!  My husband has this burning sensation, and pain from just his sheet or shirt touching him.  He has chronic nerve pain and is being treated with Lyrica but it does nothing.  It's nice to have a name and more information to go on.,There is information out there. I found a TED talk by accident one day that led me to keep researching. Lyrica never helped me. Gabapentin offers a bit of relief but not much.Does anyone else suffer from Allodynia?,Ten years ago, I got in a car accident when I was 18 and got paraegic. I could not move nor feel my legs at all, except the tip if my toes, with the right leg's toe having more flexibility than the left.
After a long surgery and months of therapy I was miraculously able to walk again, but not without a price to pay..

Since the nerves that control my left leg were more damaged, I've been having a burning and tingling sensation for about every night, unless I'm on Lyrica (which doesn't work all the time). It got to a point where I wish I never regained the ability to walk again to not feel this pain, everyday for ten bloody years.

It makes me question whether a life like this is worth living, but I'm trying my best to be optimistic and hope that someday there will be a cure.Does anyone else suffer from Allodynia?,That’s pretty awesome, how long does the pain reduction last? Any chance insurance would shell out for one... hahahaDoes anyone else suffer from Allodynia?,Thermal in right armPosted Question, Comment, Reply
nerve pain pattern,What is an SPT?,Suprapubic tube?nerve pain pattern,Wahls diet is not actually proven to help with anything.nerve pain pattern,I am T12 complete, I also get bad nerve pain and spasms, what works best for me is smoking weed, but not strong stuff that make you trip balls, I grow my own in my garden,I do usually hit a vape pen in the morning and smoke some of my homegrown weed in the evening and take a dropper full of my homemade THC tincture before I go to sleep, which helps a lot with spasms so they don't wake me up in the night. As for nerve pain it definitely helps at the right dosage but I'm very careful so I don't build up too high of a tolerance and so that I don't feel like I have to be high all the time.nerve pain pattern,I've only gotten extreme pain in my genitals when I ate edible marijuana. similar to what you're describing felt like someone kicked me in the balls 10 times. It sucks because it's also what gives me relief from my spasms. Now a days I just use it as a skin balm instead of ingesting it. Helps but not as effective as eating it.,Yeah I get that feeling on the target day whether or not I smoke weed, but smoking weed does help although if I get too high it definitely can heighten the nerve pain.nerve pain pattern,I haven’t heard of the Wahls protocol, thank you for bringing that up. Did you notice a cycle in your pain before starting the diet too? 

Props to you for forgoing medications. You sound exceptionally determined.,Thank you! No I did not notice a pattern beforehand I was pretty much just at the mercy of whatever my body felt like feeling that day influenced by the weather and atmospheric pressure and such. I feel like now I have a much clearer view of my nerve pain and can parse out unrelated symptoms easier. As for forgoing medication, it's mostly due to the side effects freaking me out or messing with my sleep or bowel program (constipation, etc.) Or they just don't work or I just have to keep upping the dosage and I don't feel like playing that game. The intensity of my nerve pain on those days still fluctuates with the weather and atmospheric pressure.nerve pain pattern,морозный ожог - как это знакомо мне ! Так как область гениталий наиболее чувствительное место, поэтому там много нервных окончаний. Согласен, можно курить травку и делать задержки дыхания перед тренировками. Это неплохо влияет на твою ситуацию.nerve pain pattern,I'm 33m T4 Incomplete but go through a two day repeating cycle - have been exerpiencing this for roughly one year now. 

-Day one: "The good day" Relatively low pain - tightness and numbness along the right side of my right leg which runs through my hamstrings and into my glutes

-Day two: "the bad day" icy / freezer burn feeling within both of my legs which spreads into my hamstring and glutes.

When I've spoken to my doctors regarding this cycle they seem perplexed and sounds like an outlier type of situation. From what I gather most folks have the same symptons daily not on a cycle.

Over time the bad days have gotten better the more I exercise its just strange to me that my body has some sort of internal clock that keeps this pattern.,yeah I don't get it either, it's really strange but it's so consistent that I can know how I will feel months out and I have had other people keep track and I myself have kept a journal just to make sure and there have been no deviations.nerve pain pattern,Anybody else experience similar nerve pain symptoms regularly? Or notice any patterns? The genital pain was a huge problem when I was still in the rehab hospital because I kept thinking I had a UTI and so the doctor kept treating a UTI when he probably should not have been, but the pain was so powerful and so real I had no idea what else it could have been. Fucking nerve pain man.nerve pain pattern,I’ve had really bad nerve pain! I have never heard of Wahls before. Also what is SPT? My nerve pain is the “special part” too! I’m a T-12 incomplete sine 2013. GSW,Ha ha, SPT is suprapubic tube. Wahls protocol is certainly worth checking out and is a pretty healthy diet in general.nerve pain pattern,The pattern is probably due to your digestive system and urine intake outtake if that makes sense?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Women with high level SCI how the heck are we meant to deal with sexual frustration?,I know it can be a bit awkward to discuss, but I highly suggest finding an occupational therapist you are comfortable talking to. If you can find a sex therapist in your area with experience in SCI then that's awesome, but I can't find one in my state. Anyways, occupational therapists are trained to help you find ways to return to a functional lifestyle, including sex. Find one you are comfortable seeing and they can discuss options for you to try at home. 

I hope that helps. Good luck!Women with high level SCI how the heck are we meant to deal with sexual frustration?,I had spinal cord surgery c4-c5 about a year ago. At first I couldn't feel much at all down there. What really helped me was three things. 
1. I got off the cymbalta I was taking for nerve pain
2. My partner and I stopped assuming things. For example, we stopped thinking that if I liked something before, I'd still like it now. We basically considered ourselves teenagers that had to learn everything from scratch. 
3. Realizing the brain is the biggest sexual organ. Explore tantric sex and other ways of training the mind/body relationship.Women with high level SCI how the heck are we meant to deal with sexual frustration?,I’ve definitely been there. Was 16 when I was injured C6-C7 and had little to no sexual experience. I was not comfortable with my body for years after my injury. I definitely had urges but was not ready to date so I would use a vibrator. I didn’t get much out of it but it would help with the urges a little. I met my boyfriend at 25 which was the first time I felt comfortable with a guy to do anything other than kissing. It helped that he seemed comfortable with my body, he kinda just went for it and didn’t seem nervous or scared about my limitations. Within a month I was ready but that was after talking about how it would go and hat I was and wasn’t comfortable with. We focused a lot of foreplay which was helpful because I wasn’t sure how my body would react to sex. I know some people get dysrefelxia and it can limit sex. I do have feeling below but I’ve found areas that enhance the pleasure. If you aren’t ready for full on sex maybe try things slowly. Kissing and touching is a good place to start. 
Is there any intimacy in your relationship? Have you talked about wanting to do stuff? Has he voiced desire?Women with high level SCI how the heck are we meant to deal with sexual frustration?,Hi, I'm female, 20 years post. First, feeling lost and self-conscious is pretty normal at the stage you're at. Did you get any sex education during your SCI rehab? (I didn't, and many people/women don't, which is sad and infuriating, imo.) 

You can start with having a conversation with your partner about your desire to explore your new body and the next stage of intimacy between the two of you. Does he still desire you, but just not know where to go from here? Do you still desire him, but are simply too self-conscious to approach him? These are important questions.

Or you can start by exploring your body by yourself, and begin building self-confidence from there. Often with SCI, the areas above our injuries become extra sensitive -- this means that you may be able to derive A LOT of pleasure from having places like your neck and ears stimulated.  I don't know if you are able to touch/stroke these areas with your hands/fingers, but try it if you can. Go slow. Fantasize while you do it.

Someone else mentioned the vagus nerve; this bundle of nerves that run from the brain down to the abdominal area is the working theory researchers have to explain why some women with SCIs are able to achieve genital pleasure and even orgasms. In my experience, this is much more easily stimulated by going for the G-spot as opposed to the clitoris: https://www.healthline.com/health/g-spot-in-women.  After my SCI, my body completely switched from wanting clit stimulation to G-spot.  Again, I don't know your hand/arm function, but try to explore this if you can. Try using toys -- hell, people even make adaptive sex toys for people with limited hand/arm function: https://pleasuregardenshop.co.uk/shop/harnesses/spareparts-hardware-la-palma/

Perhaps once you have a better idea of what you like and what might work, you can tell your partner about it.  Or you two can explore these things together.  

Last thing: Over the years I've been able to cultivate the ability to get myself off mentally.  It sounds laughable, I know, but it works for me.  I talked about it at length in this thread: https://old.reddit.com/r/spinalcordinjuries/comments/fkjf8s/sexual_needs/fkuwfw9/  This is also helpful when you're being sexual with a partner, because it can really boost your desire when you may feel that the physical side of things isn't enough.

Here's a site that has videos about lots of stuff, including ideas for SCI sex positions: https://www.sexualitysci.org/people-with-sci 
Here's a sex toy disability guide: https://erikalynae.com/2016/10/21/sex-toys-disability/
Here's a podcast about sex and disability, it's pretty well-reviewed: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/disabilityafterdark/id1151890990?mt=2 

Happy exploring!Women with high level SCI how the heck are we meant to deal with sexual frustration?,I wonder if a therapist could help, I had one while I was still inpatient in the sci center and she talked to me and my partner about it and gave us a bunch of stuff to try. there's a bunch of resources that you could read to the could give you some avenues to explore, some of them are referenced in this article: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sexuality_after_spinal_cord_injury 
I imagine the big thing about it is to have really open communication with your partner. Best of luck to you!Women with high level SCI how the heck are we meant to deal with sexual frustration?,I don’t think this is a problem that is unique to women. You’ve got a partner which is more than most of us. I think you’ll just have to make the time to do some exploring to find out what you like and what you don’t.Women with high level SCI how the heck are we meant to deal with sexual frustration?,Vagus nerve! You're still got all the connections you need.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Hemorrhoid care and prevention?,I think you have to see a doctor for that. If it's clotted they cut it out, if not they treat it with a cream. Have no idea how to prevent it though.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Is Spasticity consistent or does it vary (Maybe I have an infection?),Usually spasms have some form of consistency to you. Night/morning. If that pattern changes it could be your body telling you something is wrong. Spasms are unique to the individual. For example: I get bad spasms when I sleep all through the night. So I sleep in cannonball / fetal position. One time I got a fever and my spasms were non-stop stabbing me in my stomach until I got better... :/ All and all - just keep a diary or mental note of what your normal spasm regimen is. Anything else — then talk to your PCP or PT/OT if you have one.,Thank you very much for that.
Only now do I realise that I have had an infection, long term.
Things have been chaotic, quick inset of multiple conditions combined with various medications.
You confirmed my suspicions.Is Spasticity consistent or does it vary (Maybe I have an infection?),Spasms are very individual to the person. I suggest tracking your symptoms to find your normal. :),Thank you for the response.

Some days I can barely get dressed, somedays I can go out and shop.

A Lot is just plain muscle pain , especially the abdomen contractions (MS hug)

I just find the wide range of variation hard to understandIs Spasticity consistent or does it vary (Maybe I have an infection?),The first movement after some time of inactivity is what triggers my spasms. The longer the better. For example my spasms in the morning when I wake up are strong.  I can also trigger spasms by twisting or moving after sitting at a desk for 20 minutes. But those spasms aren’t as strong as the ones on the morning.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
People are attracted to my skinny paraplegic legs and feet?,it makes me extremely uncomfortable,Cause someone is into your hardship?People are attracted to my skinny paraplegic legs and feet?,I've had devotees approach me through spinal cord injury groups and I personally hate it. I'm not remotely interested in being fetishized for my disability. I won't speak to anyone that approaches me this way (especially the ones that pretend they're disabled in order to join disabled-only groups). 

I'm perfectly fine with others who feel differently and enjoy the dynamic - two consenting adults and all of that. But for me personally it's a hard no.People are attracted to my skinny paraplegic legs and feet?,I will not communicate with anyone I don’t know on social media if they are friends with other women In chairs. If I suspect they are a devotee I will block them. I find it gross now because of experiences I’ve had with them. I also think power can play into it. I think they like that you cant move your legs and they can kinda do what they want. I’ve also been asked questions about my spasms in a sexual way. I have no tolerance anymore.People are attracted to my skinny paraplegic legs and feet?,I'm quite undecided.  I moderate r/sciwomen, and I state in the sidebar that they are not welcome there (which is impossible to enforce, but at least I've stated my opinion).  That's because ideally I'd like it to be a place were women can come and feel supported and safe and not have to wonder if devotees are wanking off to their serious and personal issues.  How much of a reality that is is impossible to measure.

Other than that...I tend to not want to kink shame.  Consenting adults, and all that.  However, I have had quite a few interactions with devotees that have not been fully consensual/upfront, and that pisses me off, and tends to make me see the group as a whole as people who are creepy and not to be trusted.  Let me give a couple examples.

I have a Youtube channel.  I get quite a few male subscribers who are also subscribed to other women's channels who also have SCIs.  They'll leave comments on my videos like, ”Could you show a transfer?” or ”I'm curious about how you put shoes on, could you demonstrate?” like it's just their innocent curiosity (and also like I'm a fucking idiot).  I don't appreciate this gross duplicity.  

I have also had men message me on Reddit.  At first they'll act like they're trying to get all woke and progressive and learn about my disability.  The questions start innocent enough, and I'll think, OK, people need to learn, I'll try and educate this person.  Then the questions get more and more personal and detailed and graphic...and at a certain point I sigh, realizing that once again this has nothing to do with a kindhearted person wanting to see me as more human -- in fact, it's just the opposite.

So, in conclusion, I'm over devotees because of the lying, the deceit, the creepiness, and how they fake being disabled in order to get their jollies.  Our community already gets enough shit from the world in general, now these people want to come in and use us even more?  Are we not squeezed dry already??

I'm sorry, it just pisses me off that the able-bodied world ignores us, won't address inequalities or inaccessibility or our poverty, yet there's this subset of them who uses us to jerk off, and I can guarantee these devotees don't give a shit about any of our problems.

But those are my own personal feelings.  I know that sometimes you can't explain why you are attracted to something.  So this is why I am so undecided.  I guess I acknowledge that devotees exist, and also that I don't like the fact that they do.People are attracted to my skinny paraplegic legs and feet?,It makes me feel pretty awkward ngl -not because someone is specifically into impairment, just because its a mode of objectification that feels like they don't actually want to engage with me, rather they want to engage with their (usually misinformed) ideas about quadriplegia. Devotees also sexualise very weird actions in my exp, like using my teeth to open something or worse, actively sexualise struggle.

I don't feel that in current society someone can just have an attraction to physical impairment or its consequences. Due to how disability is viewed, espec visible ones, there's always going to be an element of freakshow or inspiration or something imo.People are attracted to my skinny paraplegic legs and feet?,I would consider myself a devotee I guess, I’m married to my partner who happens to be paraplegic T3, complete. I found him attractive, wheelchair skinny legs and all. We dated for a couple years and hit it off. We are gay, been married 3 now. We love each other, it’s not just about the disability or a fetish, perhaps for some it is. But people are either genuine or shallow. Depends on the person. Is like being attracted to someone because of their traits whether blond muscular skinny or heavy. Male or female. Is not necessarily a bad fetish that is to be scorned. Its the person who I love and respect. But I genuinely find him attractive and knew I would be a good partner for someone who uses a wheelchair and decided to pursue it. Our sex is fantastic and we both love it. It’s all how you view it I guess. Whether someone is turned off by a disability, or turned on or is ambivalent. We compliment each other very well and enjoy having an interabled marriage, it works great for us.People are attracted to my skinny paraplegic legs and feet?,It’s the weirdest thing and something I’ll never understand. When I tell my able bodied friends about that they honestly don’t believe me until they look into it! I don’t think there is not enough light on this topic.People are attracted to my skinny paraplegic legs and feet?,I'm 13 and also complete so... You know the drill of going to schoolPeople are attracted to my skinny paraplegic legs and feet?,They are called devotees!,Yes, I know!! Wasn’t sure the word was allowed here ;)People are attracted to my skinny paraplegic legs and feet?,I have very ambivalent feelings about this fetish. It's not my cup of tea but it certainly doesn't annoy me. I just feel that it's none of my business what two consenting adults are into as long as it's not harming anybody else. And when you think about it, there are countless strange fetishes that are much worse.,I was talking out of my ass when I wrote that response. I just received a message from a devotee on one of my social media accounts and it made me realize that this practice of fetishizing someone's disability is wrong on so many levels. It can't be compared to other kinks. By being okay with it, I'd be encouraging the idea that your disability defines everything you are. The idea that you're helpless because of it. Finding someone's atrophied limbs or their dependence on mobility aides sexually arousing is extremely disturbing and I refuse to be objectified like that.People are attracted to my skinny paraplegic legs and feet?,I've been into this sci world for 12 years this July 31st. I would post pictures of myself on fb in my wheelchair and learned quick what a devotee was. It personally creeps me out. So much so that I rarely ever post pictures including my chair anymore. If other people wanna get into the world, good for them.. As long as both are into it. For myself, it's a no.People are attracted to my skinny paraplegic legs and feet?,To each their own, i jumped down this rabbit hole once and learned that there are people who have onlyfans for this. I've been approached on my other profile by devotees asking for nudes and stuff which threw me for a loop, especially since I wasn't posting anything to do with that fetish but posted in a different r4r mentioning i was a para. It's not my thing but I'm not going to shame them for it, they just need to not be creepy about it.People are attracted to my skinny paraplegic legs and feet?,As long as it is mutual I have no problem with it, however I have female friends who are stalked on Facebook and one who's pictures were Photoshopped and put on a fetish site. Those people disgust me.People are attracted to my skinny paraplegic legs and feet?,Devotees are only for women though, right? I’ve never heard of a woman who is sexually turned on by a disabled man. I can see how objectifying it would feel to have someone find your disability attractive. But honestly at least it’s something. I’ve not had any attention since my injury as a dude.,There’s definitely females into paralyzed guys out there,you are so wrong,My girlfriend is a devotee. I love itPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Best way to stay limber,Depends on what's causing it but it's likely at T4 incomplete you have some spasticity/tone - meaning neurological constant muscle contraction that prevents you from having the flexibility and movement you should have. Have you tried any meds for spasticity? Baclofen, Zanaflex, or even cannabis? Does it make it any better? If so, then it's likely you have tone, and you should try to talk to a physiatrist (rehab specialist) or a family doctor about it. Unfortunately using medications for tone or spasticity can mean that you lose tone or spasticity that's helpful to you - for posture or balance, for example. If the stiffness is in one particular joint, like your knee,  you might be able to get targeted injections to the muscles around it to weaken that muscle contraction, ie botox.

if you mean stiffness around your joints, ie you're losing range of motion, that's a different kind of stiffness due to loss of length in your muscles around the joint. This is common when you aren't walking because you can't move your joints (hips, knees, ankles) through their full range of motion. It can also be caused by bony changes in your joints - heterotopic ossification is not uncommon with SCI and it causes bony overgrowth usually in your hips that can cause that joint to become stuck in a particular position. HO usually requires surgery to remove the bony overgrowth and restore range of motion in that joint.Best way to stay limber,i do quite a bit of stretching throughout the day to help out but the effects don’t last long. i have really bad spasticity/tone in my hamstrings. those things are huuuuge. i tried botox but it’s too big of a muscle for the injections to be effective. i’m on baclofen and tizanidine but they’re not really doing much either. i have a trial for a baclofen pump next week because it has really negatively affected my quality of life so we will see how that goes.,Hey. For how long have u been using Baclofen. Do u feel drowsy all the timeBest way to stay limber,I stretch a lot too. I also get a deep remedial massage every week as I spasm a bit at night as well as when I try to walk a little. I'd have a remedial massage every day if I could afford it!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Can’t ever get a break... REALLY NUMOTION?,Update for you guys: I crashed my car a few days ago and in the middle of a claim, called Uber, after my Uber cancelled on me 4 times because “they don’t have room in the trunk for a wheelchair” I got an Uber and arrived at 5:15 (numotion closes at 5). I am visiting Reno right now, so I went to the Reno office, but my case is all from the Sacramento office because that’s where I permanently live. The person at the Reno office put a new wheel on & temporarily fixed the chair. Im getting my new casters shipped from Sacramento to Reno because I’m stuck here without a car. They helped me, but damn I really need a better more durable chair, I’m 21 years old and very active. It sucks but in the end it’s alrightish. I’d rather switch to a better company when I’m up for a new wheelchair but I don’t know where to go through, any help would be appreciated. At least I’m mobile for now. Cheers everyone and have a great 4th (if your in the Reno area hmu) I have a bunch of fireworks for the 4th 💯 stay up everyone!,May be visiting vegasCan’t ever get a break... REALLY NUMOTION?,LOL Screw NuMotion,Can you fill me in on NuMotion? Do they have a bad rep? As a longtime manual user about to start looking at a new chair, it would be most helpful!Can’t ever get a break... REALLY NUMOTION?,Ugh... that’s effing frustrating.Can’t ever get a break... REALLY NUMOTION?,I just ordered my first chair today through them. A ki mobility tsunami ALX.Can’t ever get a break... REALLY NUMOTION?,I didn’t know they made wheelchair parts?Can’t ever get a break... REALLY NUMOTION?,Numotion is the worst. I would join any class action against them in an instant.Can’t ever get a break... REALLY NUMOTION?,*frustrationCan’t ever get a break... REALLY NUMOTION?,I've had those exact casters and HATED them. I'm in the North East and the NuMotion reps up here aren't bad.

That exact issue has happened to me multiple times so I just had different casters put on. What kind of chair is that? I have a Quickie and changed to some beefy Primo front casters.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Do you get nauseous when you have forgotten to pee on time?,I'm a c5 so I get AD when I have to really go. I have sensation so I know when it's time but if I really hold it in then I start sweating a bit and I can feel my BP rising and then that darn headache starts to creep up. 

Anyways regardless, it's not good to put your body thru that and what I've found over the decade of being a quad is that sometimes you just gotta take care of yourself before it gets to a point where your bodys telling you to take care of yourself. 

Everything has an affect on your body. Big or small and you compound that over years... Not sure how you feel about it but I definitely don't want some bad news all cus I neglected small things over years.,Yeah, you’re right. I’m really bad with setting timers and going on a schedule because I don’t have to cath and don’t leak much. I need to get better about it so I can *keep* not having to cath. 

...though manual valsalva on my bladder isn’t too practical either, it beats uti’s. So you’re right again. LolDo you get nauseous when you have forgotten to pee on time?,I get this. C2 C5/6 incomplete quad, some sensation regarding urination but not necessarily enough to notice unless I'm paying really close attention. I'm also not the best at reading signals yet so can go some time before realising that I feel terrible because I forgot to go to the bathroom on time.,Yeah, I just got alarmed today because I forgot to pee, and then noticed I was a little wet. 
I’m female, so I wasn’t sure if it was uh, natural products, or urine. It wasn’t more than a tiny bit, but tl;dr: it was urine. 

So I either need to figure out a better way to keep myself on schedule, or see my doctor again (my condition  is degenerative) because I’m not one for leaks. Thankfully I’m just home all day, but I hope this doesn’t become more frequent.Do you get nauseous when you have forgotten to pee on time?,It sounds like autonomic disreflexia which is extremely common with SCIs. You may also experience skin redness and extreme headaches as a side effect. It’s a side effect of the rising blood pressure. Make sure you address it quickly because it is dangerous to ignore. In extreme circumstances you can have a stroke if you don’t address the problem, bladder or otherwise.,No AD with lower-level injuries! T6 and above.,See, here’s where my ignorance comes in... I’ve assumed that I’m not “bad enough” to get AD, because I don’t have a thoracic injury. I’ve thought it sounds similar to AD too, cuz I definitely feel like shit when I ignore my spasms, bowel/bladder, or pain/hunger. 

But then I correct myself, because doctors always insist I don’t have an SCI due to the level of my issues. 🙄 So idk what to call it, but it sounds like something I should pay attention to, regardless.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
How do you guys deal with quad belly?,I used to have a six pack. I did 300 sit-ups a day back in 1980.

Then came the accident that rendered me a T4.

I now have a keg.

For the past 40 years I've tried to find something to firm up and tone my stomach. I've discovered that there is nothing. Getting liposuction is very dangerous and never recommended. Starving yourself does nothing. Binders can lead to autonomic dysreflexia. Electrical stimulation doesn't work. Punching it down like soft dough doesn't work (joking).

After a while, gravity just melts your body into a dammed pool of flesh. With no stomach muscles to prevent the expansion and slide, your belly will eventually look and behave like a half-filled water balloon.

So why am I posting? Because it's good to be in the company of misery. Let's never stop hating quad bellies.,I am looking at epidural stimulation. Supposedly training can allow patients to control muscle even when the stim isn’t active. Here’s the patient.

https://imgur.com/a/YkSLdtU

This outcome is rare, admittedly.How do you guys deal with quad belly?,Dark shirts, vertical stripes, and rear lighting.

I f\*\*\*ing hate quad belly.  If I  lose weight it's almost worse, because then the belly is all that's left.,I hear you, I'm C4 and quite underweight, I also have the belly. I've had people call me fat, including members of my familyHow do you guys deal with quad belly?,Bigger pants :),Pretty much. I've tried those compression belts before, but too uncomfortable for me. But those are also good to keep your blood pressure up if that's an issue.How do you guys deal with quad belly?,Tbh, I don't know if there is a solve physically, but I know I'm working on my self-acceptance in general and that includes quad belly. Compression belts are a thing, but they don't really solve, rather just bind ... so, for me, it seems self acceptance is probably the most sustainable way to go.How do you guys deal with quad belly?,I reduce mine with a heavier meal for lunch and salad for dinner. In addition, cutting my 5 o’clock beers helped immensely!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
This is insane! Guy in a wheelchair amazing handstand.,Fucking paras always showing off. Triceps are for people who think they're too good for paralyzed life!

*This message brought to you by #Quadgang*This is insane! Guy in a wheelchair amazing handstand.,Awesome!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Random question, friends: best rec for independent fingernail/toenail clippers for a quad?,Consider https://www.allegromedical.com/daily-living-aids-c519/nail-care-combination-set-two-in-one-nail-care-p193195.html

Or

https://www.allegromedical.com/personal-care-c532/nail-care-center-suction-base-p198477.html,Thank you.Random question, friends: best rec for independent fingernail/toenail clippers for a quad?,I've found it easier to hold an electric filer than try to push down on clippers. [https://www.amazon.com/Electric-Manicure-Coxeer-Professional-Pedicure/dp/B07Q9YCSCQ/ref=sr\_1\_18?crid=2JEB08NPJKKPV&dchild=1&keywords=nail+filer+electric&qid=1593900579&sprefix=nail+filer+e%2Caps%2C173&sr=8-18](https://www.amazon.com/Electric-Manicure-Coxeer-Professional-Pedicure/dp/B07Q9YCSCQ/ref=sr_1_18?crid=2JEB08NPJKKPV&dchild=1&keywords=nail+filer+electric&qid=1593900579&sprefix=nail+filer+e%2Caps%2C173&sr=8-18),Good idea. Thank you. Do you have issues pushing the button?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
This sounds very interesting. Hope something comes up soon. What are your thoughts?,There's a lot of interesting things happening but I wouldn't keep my Hope's high that a "cure" is coming. At least not anytime soon.,The cynic in me says It’s not coming. Too much money in providing equipment for people with spinal injuries. 

But I try and stay optimistic; so it could only be a few years away!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
What's your go to way to losing weight?,Diet. Less calories in than out.What's your go to way to losing weight?,Have self discipline when it comes to food and work out

*I do not have self discipline.What's your go to way to losing weight?,Doing house chores including mopping, cleaning, cooking, doing the dishes 🙂 and making sure my vegetable and fruits intake doesn't go down, 4-6 almonds (I don't prefer animals as food). I kid you not, I am being told I have lost a little fat in a span of 14 days. I dont feel so, but I am being told. I'll know in a month or so.

Anyway, to the point as to how: just keeping myself busy with the chores.What's your go to way to losing weight?,Eat less,Sorry but eat less is not the answer..just eat more veganWhat's your go to way to losing weight?,Go vegan , hold the sugary snacks.,Yup, what he said, I went vegan about 10 years back and stopped worrying about what I eat, before I would only eat once or twice a day. now I start with a Nutri bullet and eat what I want. my bowel routine improved, haven't shat myself and I've had barely any UTI's (2/3maybe) since. 23y post-injury 10vegan. I'm way healthier now in my 40's than I was in my 20's. I don't drink any fizzy drinks or eats sweets either, and granted it helped that nowhere used to sell stuff that was vegan unlike now.,Same thing helped me lose fifty pounds a couple years ago, I also stopped drinking alcohol.  I stayed vegan, sometimes I cave and have sugar.What's your go to way to losing weight?,First, diagnosed pre-diabetic and altered my diet accordingly. (No more of my beloved Mountain Dew).

Ten years later, diagnosed 2 Diabetic and altered my diet yet again. (Switched to Splenda, no more feasting on grapes :,(, cut WAY back on the pasta...) Bonus, Medicare now lets me see a Dietician and I can now see how food affects my blood sugar twice a day.  The later let's me make immediate adjustments.,Bro they make Diet mountain dew.  It's great.What's your go to way to losing weight?,idk your level of injury but if you’re in a manual chair you could go on walks (rolls?). i’m in college and transitioned from a power chair to a manual chair last year and dropped like 15-20 pounds just from pushing a mile or 2 per day. since i’ve been home I did laps around my neighborhood until it got too hot (I live in florida, it was 94 out today). if that’s not an option, you’d just have to watch your diet.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I want to find a group of children with SCIs so my child can enjoy being with people similar to him. The phrasing sounds weird, I know, but are there any types of groups (excluding summer camps for obvious reasons) I can reach out to for my child?,I know the Shepard center in Atlanta has loads of groups and does a summer camp specifically for sci people. Probably worth looking into or talking to them as they probably know different groups around the country.,Also try Craig hospital in Denver!I want to find a group of children with SCIs so my child can enjoy being with people similar to him. The phrasing sounds weird, I know, but are there any types of groups (excluding summer camps for obvious reasons) I can reach out to for my child?,I would say to reach out to the closest children’s inpatient rehab center, and ask for the Recreational Therapist. Leave a detailed message if you don’t get him/her Immediately. Leave age, what you are seeking, and level of injury. Shouldn’t matter if your child has ever been a patient there. Rec Therapists are awesome fonts of knowledge about community and community accessibility.I want to find a group of children with SCIs so my child can enjoy being with people similar to him. The phrasing sounds weird, I know, but are there any types of groups (excluding summer camps for obvious reasons) I can reach out to for my child?,Try looking for "adaptive sports" type groups near you. Maybe on Facebook. If your doctor/neurologist is from nearby they might be able to help you too.I want to find a group of children with SCIs so my child can enjoy being with people similar to him. The phrasing sounds weird, I know, but are there any types of groups (excluding summer camps for obvious reasons) I can reach out to for my child?,If you’re in the UK, the Back Up Trust have an amazing U-18s group who go on trips around the country as well as weekends away.I want to find a group of children with SCIs so my child can enjoy being with people similar to him. The phrasing sounds weird, I know, but are there any types of groups (excluding summer camps for obvious reasons) I can reach out to for my child?,Sports. There is a junior wheelchair rugby league which is great fun. The adult clubs help out! Take a look in your area :)I want to find a group of children with SCIs so my child can enjoy being with people similar to him. The phrasing sounds weird, I know, but are there any types of groups (excluding summer camps for obvious reasons) I can reach out to for my child?,I recommend reaching out to websites with adaptive sports or recreation in your area. Or talking to your local rehab center. I heard of a guy that has gotten a group of teenagers to go bowling and such together from rehab. Maybe you could start something like that if there is t something in your area already.I want to find a group of children with SCIs so my child can enjoy being with people similar to him. The phrasing sounds weird, I know, but are there any types of groups (excluding summer camps for obvious reasons) I can reach out to for my child?,I don't know of any myself but this forum (https://www.carecure.net/) is (AFAIK) the largest online SCI forum and there is a lot of experience and resources there. I would suggest that in addition to inquiring here you register at that form (free!) and make a thread. Tons of very helpful people there. 

Good luck!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Thinking of Urostomy?,I (c6-c7) don't know about urostomy but I do have a supra pubic catheter and honestly it's fantastic, if you use a large bag you pretty much don't have to think about peeing all dayPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Does Quadripeding use the hips muscles?,It's hard to say because quads and paras often bypass the use of alot of muscles and over compensate with others, if that makes sense? If you do it in front of a physio they would be able to tell you what muscles you're engaging!,This. You may be regaining function and strength in those muscles, you may be compensating and not realize it. 

We see patients frequently who return for an annual checkup excited about new muscle function returning. But then upon completing and ISNCSCI (ASIA) Test it specific muscle testing, nothing is “firing”; they’ve just subtly, over time, learned how to use what to *do* have to compensate for what they *dont* have. Of course there are those who do have new muscles firing which is very exciting!Does Quadripeding use the hips muscles?,Hard to say. What level of injury are you and what Asia?

Are you hyperextending and locking the joints?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Anyone use tizanidine?,It’s a lifesaver. 

Be aware that there’s an interaction with other drugs, especially **Cipro and fluoxamine** that slows the metabolism of tizanadine by your liver causing a buildup in your blood. Among the side effects is a **dangerously low blood pressure**. Your doctor/pharmacist should catch this but numerous times they haven’t with me so be vigilant.Anyone use tizanidine?,Tizanadine is great. But passing out is a side effect of tizanadine. And unfortunately it does not go away. Not that I’m aware of. It can be scary too. I’ve noticed it when I take it and I have to get up during the 4 hour period before a next does. Like before it runs out. I’ve been prescribed it for a car accident. I don’t have an SCI.  But my brother is a quadriplegic from SCI. He takes it as needed.Anyone use tizanidine?,I use tizanidine for sleep and believe me, the effects can sneak up on you. I have felt fine and bang, the drug kicks in and I cannot stand (incomplete SCI) or use my brain. So be careful and use it sparingly if possible.Anyone use tizanidine?,I used to take it as well, but eventually discontinued it as I got more used to my spasms. I found that wearing an abdominal binder helped prevent the sudden blood pressure drops. If there was still a drop, it gave me a lot more time to react to it.,so it didnt stop your spasms? Ive been on it for four months nightly at 12mg and I developed muscle spasmsAnyone use tizanidine?,I was on this medication shortly after my spinal fusion for pain. I’ve suffered from insomnia my entire life and never found something that worked and didn’t have side effects until I started taking this. Now I use it right before bed and stay asleep all night and wake up without feeling groggy.Anyone use tizanidine?,It works (I don’t tolerate baclofen, benzos or dantrolene) but it makes me stupid floppy and I started losing some core strength, so now I only take it at bedtime on days when I haven’t been able to do enough to manage my spasms.Anyone use tizanidine?,Tizanidine was great at first for me (L1 burst incomplete) but quickly I found it made me sleepy and I was napping for about 2 hours after using it. I switched to Baclofen for a bit but now rarely take it to avoid the side effects. I’m trying to monitor my spasms as best I can and figure out what is the cause and correct. Mostly finding dehydration or a UTI are main causes.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
AFO Questions,Ski socks mate, they work great and are cheaper than specially made socks. You can get them in any sports clothing shop :) just wash them on a gentle setting! They pad your boney bits which makes you are less risk of pressure sores. If you don't wear socks you will likely get sores. Listen to your orthotist.,This! I'm in an AFO and am wearing my snowboarding socks. They're the perfect length, and they're comfortable.,All right thanks!AFO Questions,I have AFOs and I wear really long thin socks I’ve gotten online called over the knee socks or even thigh high socks. Thigh-high is actually better because they provide more skin protection. They protect my skin but are thin enough to not wrinkle under the AFO’s or cause any other skin irritation. Look in the women’s section for thigh high socks. Good luck!,Folding them down over the top also?AFO Questions,I've been having good luck with knee-height compression socks. My feet sweat a ton so I usually get Merino wool compression socks but those get really pricey. Most people I know with AFOs are happy with standard synthetic spots compression socks with a compression rating of 20-30mmhg. In addition to helping provide a good barrier between the AFO and your skin, the compression helps increase circulation in your feet which reduces the risk of pressure ulcers or blood clots.AFO Questions,I just went on Google (search engine) and typed in AFOs socks and a bunch of possibilities came up. I don’t have AFOs so I cannot help with personal experience.AFO Questions,No, I pull them all the way up. And my pant leg just looks weird and kinda sits on top of the leg brace. I’ll try to pm you a picture todayAFO Questions,Runners leggings work great for me as do compression socks. Good luck.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Ducolax suppository use,I use a 10mg suppository daily along with digital simulation / digital evacuation. 1hr - 1.25hrs and I am done. I have followed a good dietary system so far, probably I would also suggest to have fibre rich food or drink naturalax or locally available Fibre rich drink the night before and go for the morning routine. Until your body gets used to. 8 hrs is crazy time, and unheard of for me, I would suggest to check with a doc. Probably you can also check your water intake and increase a bit. Go for the morning routine at a fixed time window so your body also gets used to a schedule. I feel system / schedule is really important after SCI 🙂,I agree - schedule is vital. I'm tweaking mine. I used to go weekly, I don't eat a huge amount so it was ok- occasionally I'd feel a little full. I do feel better going twice weekly and trying to get my body into this amended schedule is proving challenging.Ducolax suppository use,I’m wondering if this is not good to use dulcolax daily?,Haven't heard back from doctors saying it's not good. I know people who have been doing it for 20+ years. And I haven't had any issue over the last 10 years... Saves me time..🙂Ducolax suppository use,Do you do your program daily? I no longer use suppositories, I just use digital stimulation every 2-4 days when I feel like I need to go and it’s been working pretty well for me.,thanks for the reply. Have heard about but never tried digital sim.
Do you do your own or rely on a carer to do it?,Yeah everyday. This makes sure I don't have any bowel accident. And I don't have to worry too much about what I eat or drink. I have retained same dietary and drinking schedule as I used to have, before the accident. Enabled me to live more freely. Digital stimulation alone doesn't help me.. Tried few times early on during my rehab.

Right now during lockdown, I tried to do every alternate days. And still use suppository only to make sure everything is clear. I am way more worried about having bowel accidents. And before the Spinal injury, I used to take dump daily. Thought to not change after the accident 🙂Ducolax suppository use,The usual in the UK instead of the magic bullet is 1/2 glycerin suppositories,thanks, do you recommend any particular brand? and are these available on prescription?Ducolax suppository use,I am C4 quadriplegic, since 2014.   
At the beginning, we used suppositories with varying results.

For the past few years I switch to Peristeen. [https://www.coloplast.co.uk/Peristeen-Anal-Irrigation-System-en-gb.aspx#section=product-description\_3](https://www.coloplast.co.uk/Peristeen-Anal-Irrigation-System-en-gb.aspx#section=product-description_3)

&#x200B;

Basically it works by filling your lower bowel with water, when you release the water everything comes out with it too!

&#x200B;

I have heard of different people doing it themselves and only needing to use it twice a week but for me I still use it every day and and due to my injury I need someone to do it for me.

&#x200B;

It has been great and there have been no accidents since we started to use it.

&#x200B;

I I still take three Movicoll at night and a Sena tablet , when I get up in the morning I am ready to go and the Peristeen clears everything out!  


Its a great load off your mind to get that sorted out first thing in the morning, and it means you're not worrying about it for the rest of the dayDucolax suppository use,C5/6 quad, I had issues with Ducolax and would be over the toilet for hours. I switched to Enemeez a mini enema, best for me to use over the toilet because I’ll have a movement within 5 min. I tend to feel emptier and just better afterwards than with Ducolax, occasionally will have big ole farts but they’re not dirty or smell so I’m fine with it. Definitely recommend I go every other day and haven’t had an accident since switching. You can buy it multiple places including amazon but read up see if it’s for you. https://enemeez.com,Thanks, this sounds exactly what I need. I'm in UK so I going to ask my doctor if I can get something similar.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Adapting an old Georgian home for recent SCI paraplegic,I have lived 10 years in a home built in 1945 and am L-something para. Never had a lift installed so the upstairs and downstairs are off limits ie. no shower or bath, sleep in a non-bedroom main floor. I take Navy showers and wash hair in a sink. Occasionally take an outdoor shower when it is warm, with a large barrel and hose gravity fed. Only a few bits needs to be regularly cleaned. I admit this would be intolerable for some people, but I was an outdoors/camping person. I agree about not moving, a nice house makes all the difference when you are home all the time instead of a cramped apartment, and the building work might provide something to feel part of. Could consider taking renovations slowly and figuring out ways to adapt in the mean time, certain renovations might not really be needed anyway, 300k pounds sounds very expensive to be honest, they must be lowering kitchen counters, etc.. nice to have but is it needed right now.Adapting an old Georgian home for recent SCI paraplegic,I'm sorry for my lack of content related to you question, but I happen to know some medical researchers at University of Bath who do research with persons who have SCI. Not that your father should volunteer, but I know my friends are well-connected in the SCI-community and also at Stoke Mandeville. Message me if you'd like me to reach out to them and put y'all in contact.Adapting an old Georgian home for recent SCI paraplegic,I'd suggest contacting Aspire - they have a housing assistance service that might be able to help with the temporary accommodation:

[https://www.aspire.org.uk/help-with-housing](https://www.aspire.org.uk/help-with-housing)

In the UK, you'll definitely want to look into Aspire (for housing and help with PIP application if needed), Back Up Trust (they do fantastic wheelchair skills courses and a great mentoring scheme) and the Spinal Injuries Association (their nurse advocate program is great if you have any problems with your father's care after he's discharged. He might also find the SCI Owner's Club group on Facebook helpful - it's not open to family and carers so he would have to join himself if that appeals, but it's a great way to talk to other spinal cord injured people about their lived experiences, which is so different from the advice you get from hospital. They'll also likely have some advice on home conversions.

I dated a guy for awhile who had a huge Georgian house and it was a nightmare, even though I'm a walker. You might find it easiest to think about what can be converted into usable space for your dad on the ground floor and even outside in the garden if possible. You can also get grants for home conversion - you'll probably want an occupational therapist to assess your dad, but I'm sure they would have provision for that at Salisbury. It's a big job but it's worth it, and there is support out there, it just takes a bit of time and effort to sort through it all. Aspire now suggest contacting your local housing department, citizens' advice bureau, and/or Shelter England to get support for long-term housing. Good luck!Adapting an old Georgian home for recent SCI paraplegic,When I was discharged in 2004 in Wales they would not let me leave until suitable living area was available. As for options I'd look around for specific architects that specialise in adapting houses. There should be at least one in spitting distance but check around for price. Alot of those sort of guys specialise in these things and may be able to get a temporary fix while you get longer lasting adaptation. I was absurdly lucky in that the scholl my parents worked at adapted their campus house but their must be other patients in your area going through this.Adapting an old Georgian home for recent SCI paraplegic,Can he not get any grants from the government for the adaptation of the home?,Governmental grants are really difficult to get, and they also look at his income. But obviously he won't be able to work anymore, so we're in a bit of a tight spot!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I got such good horror stories from this bout of hospital shit I've been thru last 2 months.,Tell them!I got such good horror stories from this bout of hospital shit I've been thru last 2 months.,Yes tell usI got such good horror stories from this bout of hospital shit I've been thru last 2 months.,You want to talk surprise bills, just got a 200k surprise out of network bill for diagnostics while in surgery,Wait ... was that for intraoperative electrophysiological monitoring?

I've heard horror stories about insane bills for something that is considered standard.I got such good horror stories from this bout of hospital shit I've been thru last 2 months.,Like waking up in a pool of your own blood? Then getting sepsis? Then having the light directly over your bed malfunction and unable to turn off?

It'll get better. It has to.,I did this too. I'm way better homie holy fuck. Message me I'll take u to Massachusetts#1 hospital in the world and u can be home in a week cured and I'll sit with u everydauI got such good horror stories from this bout of hospital shit I've been thru last 2 months.,Yes dm me I have been thru the same maybeI got such good horror stories from this bout of hospital shit I've been thru last 2 months.,Hospitals are the worst man.I got such good horror stories from this bout of hospital shit I've been thru last 2 months.,How about needing, not, 5 or 6 people to do routine transfer from chair to bed cuz nurse was untrained and scared, and being in pain from urgent need to be cathed but after letting nurse know she had to wait an hour for those extra people instead of getting one cna who knew what they were doing. And then suffering pinched nerve that left arm numb with limited function for the next day due to their rough manhandling.,Going to the bathroom sucks i had to do everything on the bed for two weeks asking for gloves for bowl movement cath my self from bed.. omg. I just wanted to cry sometimes.I got such good horror stories from this bout of hospital shit I've been thru last 2 months.,Stay safe my friends. Sci folks can easily get neglected while at a hospital. I remember teaching nurses and doctors about my issues including how best to help me. Communication is hard af when all you have is a American H.S. education.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Computer Accessibility Research,Many of us sci are too poor to have any type of cool gadgets.  The main issue with computer accessibility is Money..Posted Question, Comment, Reply
It’s HOT outside! How are you guys staying cool? Made a video sharing tips on how I stay cool in the heat. Always been a struggle for me post injury to enjoy summer.,Great vid, nearly overheated myself on holiday few years ago. No idea how quads cope in hotter climates than the UK.,I don’t know how quads in like Florida do it! The humidity gets bad here but it never lasts tooo long! I never realize I’m getting overheated until I’m actually overheated haha I’m learning tho! Glad you liked it!It’s HOT outside! How are you guys staying cool? Made a video sharing tips on how I stay cool in the heat. Always been a struggle for me post injury to enjoy summer.,Check out twofish.biz for a Velcro mounted water bottle holder.,Thanks for the tip! Will do!It’s HOT outside! How are you guys staying cool? Made a video sharing tips on how I stay cool in the heat. Always been a struggle for me post injury to enjoy summer.,The guys on the rugby team all carry around misting water bottles and spritz themselves to simulate perspiration. Works like a charm.,I’ve seen those! I gotta get a misting one to try!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Water bottle recommendations for a quad?,Hey man, C5 incomplete here. 

I got this one with an order for a bunch of catheters.
I think it's really good, and I've used it a lot. The company as I've understood it is in Denmark, so the shipping might not be worth it for you.
Hope it helps, let me know what you end up with.

https://imgur.com/gallery/tSSQ8s2,Thanks! Yeah the shipping would be a bit much, but I like that design. Somethings that I can use my teeth to open and close the spout. I can let you know if I find a similar one.Water bottle recommendations for a quad?,Been using this style water bottle for years, it’s super quad friendly, protects the nozzle and has a loop to pick it up with! 


https://www.amazon.com/CamelBak-Eddy-Water-Bottle-Oxford/dp/B015DJADJU/ref=sr_1_23?crid=3GS0KFOFGO9KP&dchild=1&keywords=camelbak+water+bottle&qid=1593113029&sprefix=Camelb%2Caps%2C236&sr=8-23Water bottle recommendations for a quad?,We use this one at home (boyfriend is C6-C7) and pretty pleased about it! 
Camelbak Chute Mag Drinkfles https://www.amazon.nl/dp/B07664SN5V/ref=cm_sw_r_other_apa_i_lhV9Eb6BWX7WD,I use this! C2 C5/6 incomplete and its pretty much always with me.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Pain when sitting,Hi ! I had the same problem , and like you, I trusted the doctors and took a bunch of different pills. Uselessly. Then I was told that prostatitis is incurable, especially in a patient with a spinal injury. then I told them to go to hell and started massaging the front of my stomach with my fists. I did it 3 times a day for 15 minutes. relief came on the third day. after a month of these sessions, I gave up all the pills and forgot about these terrible and excruciating pain. Watch this video in detail : [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K\_wnqLOMAMA](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K_wnqLOMAMA) . This is  Russian doctor, but I think your Russian friends will help you with the exact translationPain when sitting,I really hope you can make it.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Feel the urge to catheterise but can’t?,That happens to me time to time, could be a sign of a little uti, usually I'll start drinking water when that happens and it goes back to normal. Could be something else so maybe it's worth calling your doctor.,I agree get tested for a UTI.,Cranberry pills tooFeel the urge to catheterise but can’t?,Have you talked to your doctor about this?Feel the urge to catheterise but can’t?,Definitely get tested for a UTI. Abdominal heaviness is one of my main symptoms, along with feeling the urge to catheterise without having anything or very little come out.,That's rough I'm sorry. I think we all just have worse problems with bladders than anything. I'm using a Foley to just get relief for now and it's great for keeping a UTI away and just a legbag is not that bad.Feel the urge to catheterise but can’t?,Doesn't nessecarily happen to me but I think I know what u mean. It's prolly ur body half healing and just trying to make since of the chaos. I'm sorry brother..

I see others are saying uti. I always can kind of tell when I'm getting them I'm sure you would noticed that rightPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Do any quads here own a handgun?,Only a para but have limited ab control (t-4 injury level). But just bought a baretta apx very light and small handgun,How’s the trigger pull? That’s the one thing I’m kinda concerned about. Well that and the recoil.Do any quads here own a handgun?,I'm only a Para (t8 complete) but I have a handful and I've shot a decent amount after my injury. My upper body isn't in bad shape so u can handle recoil and even a stiff trigger but reaching my arms out to aim makes me fall forward. If I shoot with only one hand I can brace my other on my knees but that makes me a bit shaky. I can scoot myself farther forward in the chair to lean back more but that feels awkward as well. I just recently started trying to conceal carry again but it's super hard to conceal on a chair and it makes you paranoid when you can't feel it. 

Right now I'm trying to use a walther pps, it's nice and compact 9mm without a ton of recoil. I'm carrying on my ankle because I can't think of anything better (can't access pockets or front of waist, back carry would place it between me and the chair, can't chest carry because I'm not gonna wear a jacket in the summer and can't carry outside on my side because I don't want people to know I have it or have it rub on my wheels). I also want a crimson trace for it but I can't do another $200 for it right now. 

For you since your a quad and I don't know your ability I'd recommend finding a range that allows you to rent guns to try. I have one near me but I fucking hate that place, haven't been since my injury but I think it might be my only option as the other is a wma outdoor range. I would start small and plink with a semi 22 just to get the feel and so how well you can control and then try some small revolvers or 9mm pistols depending on what feels good.,I appreciate the comment man. Thank you.Do any quads here own a handgun?,Not quad, T6-7, but I've got a Sig Sauer 2022. Recoil isn't too bad, might be difficult without full grip strength though.Do any quads here own a handgun?,I'm C5-C6, with only a useless flicker of movement in one finger and, no, not my a possible trigger finger.

&#x200B;

Had to give my my .357, post injury. Never really for a handgun I felt safe using again, but I almost committed to a Browning .22. Would've needed to customize the grip & handguns in Canada were, already then, a hassle to own, let alone modify even in the slightest.

&#x200B;

All this to say that I added a bow wrist sling to the grip. Saved it dropping onto my lap, or the ground, when my fingers failed me. That was my contribution to your search.,U considered still modifying some type of helper. U can still do so much but I'm sure u know. Just cuZ u can't hold it outright. A jig can and u can then upgrade shit for all types of gunpowderily activities dude. Don't just give up. I made custom hand controls right out of rehab and was driving without a damn second cripple test asap. And I've rigged up ATVs that required feet to use and all kinda shit. An electric scooter that was 200 but rivals the firefly attachment bullshit as seen on cripple inspiration porn posts but out of everyone's reach cuz it's 3000 bucksDo any quads here own a handgun?,C6-c7 quad and I own a ruger 22 rifle. I got the trigger pull lightened because I was unable to when I first got it. I also got it modified and added tripod that would make it easier. Otherwise I would tip over if I held it up.,Hey that's the worse I feel it. Para but.. holding on for dear life to every surface is a good way to catch covid. We are the spreaders I'm sureDo any quads here own a handgun?,Para but working to restore my fed background check so I can legally carry. Really one of the best ways we can feel safe again but guns are great when respected for anyone as well. I wouldn't doubt many quads have enuf function to shoot. Or enuf skill to modify a contraption to hold a gun steady. And point with the lips hello bang bitch u thought I was helpless huh who's feeling a breeze now in the good old chestPosted Question, Comment, Reply
My T4 Incomplete Story,I'm a complete t4 and let me tell you it's rough. But it's gonna be a great life my dude. You can do so much even as a quad if you really want too. It's all about your attitude. And time really helps. It may look like your life is over now but that surgery extended your best years. Now you gotta learn to live differently but it's still living.

I for one ride four-wheelers and big trucks and just do what I can.

I like to say. You have life experience now that most people don't ever get brother. Take that for everything it's worth. Paras and quads can lead amazing life's but only if you take charge. Just remember everyone else doesn't understand the extent of your injuries and that's one of the big issues with dealing mentally. U will get mad for people asking u if you need babied. And have times when no one helps u in need .

And always remember. We are the lucky ones. Consider having a bad brain injury. The body is just a machine. We can still be ourselves even if it means adapting and pretending when we gotta. There is always someone worse than you out there that would beg to be just a t4 incomplete. Keep ya chin up.,Thanks for sharing your wisdom. Completely agree with your statement that life can be amazing but only if you take charge -- cheers brotherMy T4 Incomplete Story,I'm in almost the exact same situation. 33M very active and healthy otherwise. I did not require surgery because the docs feared I would be paralyzed as a result (cavernoma in my spine in a dangerous area). I underwent a month of inpatient rehab and then 2 days a week as an outpatient. 

I made great gains in rehab, wheelchair-> walker-> walking sticks. It has been nearly a year since my incident and I am lucky to say I can run and finally play sports again, but of course not perfectly. I still have numbness in both feet and legs and reduced sensation from the waist down.  Also still experience issues with bowl and bladder that i'm trying out different medications for. 

Every situation is obviously unique but I would suggest for you to swap the cane for walking sticks. Like you my right leg was much weaker than my left for whatever reason, and the ankle always dragged. With a cane (not sure if you're still using it) I found myself favoring one leg over the other, with sticks it forces you to use both legs equally and it's much better for balance. I also got rid of the AFO early on. I did not want my ankle to be reliant on it and train it to stop dragging. It took time but it's feeling much better now.,Thanks for sharing, although each injury is unique it seems like we went through similar situations. It's nice knowing someone else can relate.  That's great to hear that you've made so much progress especially with playing sports and being able to run again congrats!

Inside the house I'll walk around without any assistance but still drag my ankle around - its not entirely stable. When I leave the house I'll wear my AFO as I can move faster and it provides some stability.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Hoping to gain some knowledge and insight for a potential tv show about a girl with an SCI,I like what you’re doing and I support it. Is there a reason you chose L1-L5? In my opinion it’s better to have a higher injury maybe T2-C7/8? The most frustrating thing I encounter as a C5/6 is that people think everyone in a chair is the same. It’s either waist down or total paralysis like Christopher Reeves. It would be beneficial to show someone in between to educate that it’s a spectrum. 

Hardest 3 things in my opinion are all social. I am a male and and was very athletic/active so that’s much different though. 
1) Relationships. A active person who experiences an SCI instantly becomes incompatible with their friends and lovers. Finding normal people to share experiences becomes very hard. As a guy, being in a chair comes with a lot of feelings of emasculation. I can’t speak for women but I would expect similar feelings of inadequacies. Online dating (speaking as a guy) is very difficult. 
2) Inability to travel internationally. 
3) finding a place to live, even in the US. Moving and finding an apartment or home is such a monumental pain in the ass. Is the entrance barrier free? Is the bathroom big enough? Are all doors wide enough? Etc. 

The biggest annoyance I always see in TV/movies is that someone experiences a SCI then, with a lot of hard work, they are able to overcome and be normal again. Culture and the general population picks up on this and projects this expectation to those of us who have an SCI. 99% of people will never again stand/walk move anything below their level of injury. Having to come to terms with something permanent, regardless of any amount of money or hard work, is a struggle we all live with. 

I also don’t like the traditional expectation that people who experience an SCI must automatically be an inspirational speaker. There’s nothing wrong with that but there’s plenty of “regular” jobs we can do and some are held in very high esteem. We’re all still regular people and we prefer to be treated as such.,You’re totally right about the spectrum. I will change that, thank you. Appreciate you sharing your experience.Hoping to gain some knowledge and insight for a potential tv show about a girl with an SCI,[deleted],Very powerful and helpful, thank you. Will definitely look into a class, appreciate that advice!Hoping to gain some knowledge and insight for a potential tv show about a girl with an SCI,I was 23 (4 years ago now) after piloting a small plane that crashed on takeoff. I could probably write you an essay of my experiences, but I'll keep it short and you can feel free to PM me if you want more details or questions. 

I'm T12-L2 incomplete.

3 months post injury I was just finishing being inpatient at Shepherd Center in ATL and was transitioning to their day program. 

Weirdly enough, the hardest part wasn't actually not being able to walk again, but rather all the small things you don't really think about being affected. Such as loss of bathroom abilities, sexual function, and realizing just how damn difficult it is to put on a pair of pants when you can't move your legs. 

When I started being able to take steps again, people were of course super happy for me, but it was almost overwhelming and it even felt insulting after a while. 

It's a weird feeling that your whole life just seems to stop so suddenly. I went from being trusted to fly a small plane across the US, to needing a nurse to help me take a shit. 

There are a lot more things/detail that I have but I don't really want to clog up this post with them. But feel free to PM me with any questions and I'll be happy to answer them!,Thanks so much for sharing your experience. I might PM you later!Hoping to gain some knowledge and insight for a potential tv show about a girl with an SCI,I have Central Cord Syndrome after being injured at the skull/C1. I’ve been able to make a near full recovery, but continue to deal with a few SCI struggles. Here’s a little of my experience:

-the first few days home from the hospital were a nightmare. Learning to walk, eat, dress myself, etc again in a completely accessible environment was one thing. But at home where the hallways are smaller, toilets are lower, and beds aren’t mechanical...it was a total shock. I fell into a small depression and cried nonstop because I wanted to go back to the hospital, where everything was “easier” and familiar. Looking back, I had spent nearly 3 months in 4 different hospitals and probably experienced a degree of Stockholm syndrome. 

-the inpatient OT, PT, and Speech basically got me to function again. It was up to my outpatient therapists and myself to get back to my *normal*, or discovering the new “normal.” It may have taken me 15 minutes to put my shoes on, but at least I could do it. It’s sort of a walk before you run mentality. 

-Sometimes your SCI is just one of many injuries due to an accident. For instance I broke both legs, dislocated my neck, and now have partial paralysis of my left eye. So coming to terms with an SCI and all the other shit was a *lot*. Oh! I was also in a cervical halo brace for 7 months of my recovery. (Nothing like what movie magic made it look like on Regina George) 

-Something funny: my muscle spasms can be pretty amusing. They’re mostly in my neck and legs. When they happen in my neck, it looks like i just got the chills. But my legs will sometimes just randomly kick once or twice. Pretty funny to see people reactions!


Please DM me if you have literally any other questions. I used to have a small lil blog detailing my time in the hospital and outpatient recovery. I’d love to help in any way! :),Hey thanks for sharing! I’m gonna PM you right now!Hoping to gain some knowledge and insight for a potential tv show about a girl with an SCI,I injured myself in a jet ski accident 23 years ago when I was 14. I ended up C5 C6 complete quadriplegic. Meaning, I can't walk have limited arm function, and no use of my hands other than wrist motion.

I can give you a view of how things progressed as you get farther on post-injury. I also had was born visually impaired. So I was already dealing with a disability before I gained a new one.

 I'm an absolute open book. If you're truly going to make it show that actually covers the issues that people with spinal cord injuries go through rather than just "hey look there's someone in a wheelchair here" I would love to help you in any way possible. I feel the more people learn about people with disabilities the less stigmatized we are. Hopefully that will prevent people from staring at me on the street we're having people interact with us as if we are actual human beings rather then some type of coddled baby or as if we're all mentally handicapped

Feel free to ask me any questions or PM me.,Hey thanks, appreciate your support and sharing your experience. And that is exactly my goal — to make a show that is gritty and real (and also funny) in order to allow people to see beyond the chair. That people with SCIs are just that — people... with interesting lives and complicated relationships and layered friendships and overbearing mothers and everything everyone else deals with. But with a lot more complexity and difficulty than other people are forced to deal with. Sorry to ramble, just appreciate your support — from one stranger to another! I may reach out via PM, with your permission, to ask if certain things I’m working on are accurate and reflect your experience the way you’d like them to.Hoping to gain some knowledge and insight for a potential tv show about a girl with an SCI,Get rid of the bit with where her pre-injury life is represented so you’re able to actually cast someone with an SCIHoping to gain some knowledge and insight for a potential tv show about a girl with an SCI,Hey. I'm in a similar boat as you. I don't have an SCI either, but I want to write a love story featuring a quadriplegic character as one of the leads. It's because I absolutely loathe the predominant idea that life isn't worth living with a high-level SCI. I want to counter it with a positive, realistic portrayal where the disabled character doesn't want to kill himself and has a happy ending where he remains in a wheelchair.Hoping to gain some knowledge and insight for a potential tv show about a girl with an SCI,Take a look at this heart documentaryHoping to gain some knowledge and insight for a potential tv show about a girl with an SCI,I guess you haven’t seen Super Store? Glee? Push Girls? Speechless?,Never seen or heard of them. Do the deal with the joy of bowel programs, cathing, neuropathy or like most shows basically make SCI look like your biggest problem is not walking? Honestly walking is probably 4th on my list of things I would like from a "cure",Don't really think glee and super store are accurate representations of SCI life. Yeah, they have characters in wheelchairs. Don't think they go that much deeper than that from what I've seen.,For sure, thanks. But yeah, hoping to dig a little deeper than a basic broadcast show. I feel like those shows are more of a... chip? And I wanna show the potato. Sorry for the weird analogyHoping to gain some knowledge and insight for a potential tv show about a girl with an SCI,Even asking people to provide this type of information/feedback should be compensated. It’s pretty bad to ask disabled people to do free work to help with something that you expect to profit from. Just something to think about even at this early point in the process. 

Edit: Also, things like your wording are pretty off. SCI stands for “spinal cord injury”. You can’t hire a “spinal cord injury”...,I can’t say I agree. People are curious. It’s good to educate.,I understand where you’re coming from. If it quells any of your concern, just know that I’ve done hours and hours and hours of research and already have a fully broken story. So what I’m seeking is not help to create the story, but specificity to boost the detail of my existing story in a way that honors those living in this world. For example, the last pilot I sold was about a professional women’s soccer team. I’m not a pro woman soccer player, but I did ask questions to women who were... simply to honor the specificity of their lives. I just found myself in a unique position (interest from a network for a show) and I’m just so sick of all the typical shit on tv nowadays and really want to shine a spotlight on something new, on a world people don’t know much about. And like I said, I’m just writing this on spec right now, for zero money. And if it ever did become anything, obviously my first very exciting step would be to hire people who have experienced an SCI so their stories can be told on their terms. And also - thank you for pointing out my wording. *slaps head* feeling like a real idiot. In my defense the pandemic has made my brain mush and I know have SEVERAL voices I speak in on behalf of my dogs. Thanks for your feedback, really appreciate it,This is reddit, if you don't want to answer don't answer but it is silly to say people should be paid to answer someone why just wants to be educated.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Exactly 100 days ago I took my first steps again. Today, im walking without a walker. Phoenix rising is my celebration gift to self.,That’s wonderful! Your phoenix is stunning.,Thank you!Exactly 100 days ago I took my first steps again. Today, im walking without a walker. Phoenix rising is my celebration gift to self.,Artist nailed it!! WOWOWOWExactly 100 days ago I took my first steps again. Today, im walking without a walker. Phoenix rising is my celebration gift to self.,I congratulate you !Exactly 100 days ago I took my first steps again. Today, im walking without a walker. Phoenix rising is my celebration gift to self.,Well done...Exactly 100 days ago I took my first steps again. Today, im walking without a walker. Phoenix rising is my celebration gift to self.,Congratulations! Proud of your accomplishment!Exactly 100 days ago I took my first steps again. Today, im walking without a walker. Phoenix rising is my celebration gift to self.,Such a beautiful tattoo!Exactly 100 days ago I took my first steps again. Today, im walking without a walker. Phoenix rising is my celebration gift to self.,Congratulations!!! I’m so happy for you.Exactly 100 days ago I took my first steps again. Today, im walking without a walker. Phoenix rising is my celebration gift to self.,Amazing tattoo to match a motivating story!Exactly 100 days ago I took my first steps again. Today, im walking without a walker. Phoenix rising is my celebration gift to self.,Thank you all for the love.  It brightens my spiritPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Neuralink,There are already people with sci that have gotten neuralink implants. I read about a guy that could control robotic hands with his brain.
 In an interview with Joe Rogan, Elon musk was, very positive (he always is) that this will help sci patients be able to walk again. I'm not sure if he's thinking walking as a cyborg or regaining control over body parts,in short Elon musk thinks very positively about science fiction. thank you.Neuralink,I think you think it's something it's just not gonna be. Like many miracle cures this stuff is mostly getting funded just for the media. You and I and regular cripple joe will never see it in our lives. Some special TOP OF THE CLASS ALMOST CURED person will get tested to the hilt and then put in the tv lights. Then everyone will ooo. And ahh. But it's just that. I'd love to get a nuerolink and control my Tesla with it. But even if we had millions. We are gonna skew the perfect image of results by being bad samples.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Did any of you become doctors?,I’m currently about to begin my senior year undergrad! I’m a biology psychology major and chemistry minor on a premed track, and my goal is to be a surgical pediatric oncology! It’ll be 4 years since my injury this August. I’ve always wanted to be a doctor and my injury solidified that!,Thats amazing!!! I really hope you have an amazing senior year and get to live out these dreams <3 what school do you go to, out of curiosity??Did any of you become doctors?,It's different from being in med school, but I was in dental school (which did share a lot of joint classes with the med students) when my accident happened. Once the extent of my injuries became more certain (C4/C5 complete), I opted to drop out. 

Besides the obvious physical limitations in the hands-on work though, I think just as challenging would've been the time constraints that can come with a SCI. My classes started at 7:30 and finished at 5, then most people would stay until 8 or so to practice in the sim lab/clinic. I personally wouldn't be able to keep up with a schedule like that post-injury. 

All that said, I know 2 different quadriplegics that made it through med school post-injury. As always, it'll probably depend on your injury, but there's a decent chance that you could do it if you're committed!,Thank you! Its interesting to see a lot of testimonies about quadriplegics taking on the challenge. Im a T12 with pretty good recovery, so these stories have definitely helped me with perspective for the future :)Did any of you become doctors?,I know someone who is C4 complete who got her MD/PhD. Not sure the extent of your injury but she doesn’t have hand dexterity so she works alongside an assistant. I know other accommodations can probably be made too. She’s definitely had a lot of people doubt her and tell her no, but as long as you are persistent and don’t lose hope, anything really is possible! Best of luck!,Thank you for this! Im a T12 so I have confidence in my ability to keep up, I just feel insecure going into interviews sometimes because I feel like its more of an inconvenience to make accommodations than to just hire someone else. I know thats just something Ill have to overcome, though, so thank you for your encouragement :)Did any of you become doctors?,If you go to the University of Michigan, you'd find a decent number of para/quad medical providers. I was recently admitted in the observatory emergency unit, and my doctor was a paraplegic. There's a good number out there. I'm considering physician assistantship due to my Visa issues, but leaned towards med school for a while. I feel like we all should link up -- college students with spinal cord injuries -- and serve as a support system for each other. Should we start a group chat? What do y'all think?,Id love a college group chat! I have such supportive friends at school, but its almost irritating talking to them about things I deal with because they dont get it. It would be nice to have a support group for those rough nights :)Did any of you become doctors?,There are several paraplegic doctors at Craig hospital (spinal cord rehabilitation center) in Colorado,Yeah i read about Craig online, definitely makes me feel more capable of doing it myself :)Did any of you become doctors?,The was part of an article in the "New Mobility" magazine recently that featured a nurse who is a para and it basically highlighted her stuggles/strong points when looking for a job recently.  I will search tomorrow for the article if you have any interest.,Yeah that would definitely be an interesting read!Did any of you become doctors?,>  I feel like I cant do it because I cant walk.

The bigger issue is hand function. My injury is so incomplete that most people would not notice it at a passing glance, but one of my hands weak (grade III) and I felt I would not be able to perform any tasks that require two fully functional hands. That leaves few areas of medicine (anything that involves performing surgery is completely out, so maybe radiology?).

Also, I am better with machines than with people.


> Maybe someone out there can give me advice?

If you're doing biomedical engineering as an undergraduate, see if you can switch to a more general major (EE, ME, possibly ECE). Biomedical engineering may be super interesting, but it is also very broad and omits many of the practical skills required for an engineering position. If a change of major is not possible, try to fit in as many "general" classes as possible.

You can easily get an engineering job in the BME field with a general engineering degree (EE, ME, ECE, even CS), but if your only degree is in BME, then you will be competing with people with more general degrees for BME-related positions and have a much harder time when applying for anything no BME-related.Did any of you become doctors?,I am a C5 incomplete, but only motor skills as C5.
I'm currently finishing my bachelor year in medicine.
Feel free to reach out if you want or have any questions!Did any of you become doctors?,I think it's a good damn way to understand the patients. To have so many hospital stays where I've been just disappointed in the care. I can treat someone with the respect they deserve and at the same time know to not just grab a leg and move it.. it hurts elseware sometimes that you don't see. Just cause it looks healthy and you think you can just do things your way.. that can scar a patients mental health and scare them from even getting treatments. And it goes for all illnessPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Viagra fail,50mg is a pretty low dose. 100-200mg is standard (depending on your weight). Your other option is Cialis, which has better outcomes for some people. It's important to know that getting into the mood can help, as can stimulation of erogenous zones, even if you don't have sensation. I know people that have had success with vibrators and other toys. It will never be the same as before, but with some experimentation you can have a very satisfying sex life.Viagra fail,See if you can get a prescription for Alprostadil, AKA Edex.... Edex is SUPER expensive and most insurance won't cover it, but if you can find a compounding pharmacy that will mix up Alprostadil (the generic), it's significantly cheaper... I've had pretty good results with it.Viagra fail,Try marijuana, edibles or smoke, works really well for me, and it increases sensation for me as well. Makes sex feel way better in my opinion. I would advise to only have a little bit first if you are not used to it.Viagra fail,Yeah viagra did Jack shit for me, cialis did a little better but I never truly got hard. I've also tried a pump but the effects just don't last. I want to look for more options but my insurance doesn't want to cover any of it.Viagra fail,I've been not using my junk for 5 years so long it just left. It's still in there somewhere but damn if I'm ever gonna see my 7 inch boner. But I don't crave sex really and the old lady is cripple thank god and is ok with just a good friendship type relationship.its rough tho when ya gotta please an able bodied sex fien cuz I've done that too and didn't enjoy much. Sad cuz she was great out of bed. And I'm sure in bed once upon a time we woulda been the perfect coupleViagra fail,Try Alprostadil injections instead if you can. It will be more of 'will this ever go down?' rather than the opposite. 

Viagra works on the part of the mind that makes you in the mood rather than getting the blood flowing from how I understand it. You need the latter as the signals from the brain are there they just aren't reaching your junk.

You could try Cialis instead. I, unfortunately found it was of little use like Viagra was. 

Instead of Alprostadil if you can get spontaneous erections you can try a constriction ring too. I would recommend getting a few sizes if possible and think small as you're trying to temporarily reduce the blood flow.

Lastly if you're on oral Baclofen, lower your dose prior as it can also help.,Viagra doesn't work on the mind, it relaxes the muscles and increases blood flow. It's a 'vasodilator'.

:)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Infected Ulcers! My story kinda.,I'm a T-1 Paraplegic for 41 yrs had a few minor coccyx break downs over the years. If you shower daily & keep the wound clean following Dr instructions they generally heal well. I have to agree with the medical people that you were NOT staying off it, or not doing proper pressure releases for it to continue to get worse. My wife is also a 20+ yr para we both average 12-14 hrs a day in our chairs & stay free of pressure sores. 

(  I kind of just sat on the sidelines and hoped wound care would take care of me, )  Your quote.

This was your mistake wound care is there to (assist you) they are not there 24/7 to take care of the wound that's your job!   

Hope you can get it healed & stay sore free learn from the experience,Yeah that's really hard to determine. I've been in the chair 5 years now and have had similar wounds on my butt and have been able to get over them decently. I really feel like the issue here was the infection and the way they handled trying to treat it.

But either way I appreciate your advice. Thanks. 

I am curious if you felt the same way with my toe? They only cultured it once then never again until they amputated, then it turned out it had an infection also.Infected Ulcers! My story kinda.,I do not know how to do this, but I treated myself like this : diet (complete exclusion of any glucose and sucrose), that is, you can not eat sugar, fruit, pasta, muesli, any bread, cookies, [etc.you](https://etc.you) can not drink coffee and tea. This is because bacteria need to exclude easy access to food.. Hydrogen peroxide: wash all wounds 3-4 times a day with undiluted peroxide, add 10 drops to a glass of water and drink before eating 1 time a day (caution: after a while there will be a strong relaxation of the intestines). this is because you need to exclude all bacterial flora, even from the intestines. Breathing: to increase metabolism, you will have to hold your breath using the Buteyko method. One last thing: you've already taken antibiotics. And what did it lead to ? I took this treatment for a long time, 3 months. I used oflomelid ointment. PM me with any questions, Good luck and be carefull,This sounds intense but it makes sense. Pretty much do anything that can take away from feeding the infection. Random story now that I've been on the IV antibiotics I had an adverse reaction to one. It caused a my absolute neutrophil count to be suppressed. I ended up in the hospital again for a few days till they switched my antibiotics. Then the count came back up. The doctor said there was a less than 1 percent chance it can happen, and it happened to me.,Hydrogen peroxide is **terrible** for pressure sores. It actually kills granulating cells. OP, don’t do this.Infected Ulcers! My story kinda.,Your healthcare system failed you. There was no coordination from what I see on your story. Your GP at the very least should have been conducting the orchestra. Even better, a physiatrist. It does sound a bit like wound care wasn’t taking it seriously... it sounds like from the beginning you had little trust in wound care, but that still means you need someone to help you monitor your wound, screen you for signs of infection, etc. Wound care here is done by community health clinics and they come weekly to at very least measure the wound and take a pic, if nothing else is needed. An OT sees you weekly or biweekly. There’s an SCI specific wound program run by a PT, wound care nurse and physiatrist.

The other thing that I think you probably didn’t know when you didn’t follow up with wound care is that what looks like “bandaids and ointments” usually involves regular assessment, plus they have access to specialized dressings and treatments your doc wouldn’t have in the office. It sounds like wound care had nobody knowledgeable in SCI like an OT and physiatrist to manage the process, ensure you could stay off your coccyx, keep your foot up so your toe could heal and vigilantly monitor for signs of infection. 


Any system that functions only when the patient is an expert in their condition does not provide a reasonable standard of care to 90% of patients. Sure, there were mistakes you made. But it does sound like you weren’t served well by these uncoordinated services with nobody actually as the named person in charge, directing your care. Pressure ulcers are major medical and surgical issues for a person with SCI, and require a coordinated approach.,I think this is the best reply.  Others are ragging a bit on the OP, but really, he/she has only been in a chair for 5 years, which is not long, relatively speaking.  

It's scary when you know more about SCI than the people taking care of you -- and it happens way more often than newbies think.  It's very common to believe that medical professionals know what's best.  In my first years of SCI, I certainly experienced injury through healthcare because I put my trust in medical workers who, in reality, didn't know anything about SCI.  In all my 20 years of SCI, the only times I've gotten pressure sores have been in the hospital -- because the nurses don't understand how to take care of my skin.  I've had my body position moved while I was sleeping or under anesthesia and woken up to red marks.

I'm sure there were things the OP could have done better -- and I'm sure they've learned hard lessons -- but they also can't be blamed for substandard care, and they can't be blamed for not fully understanding the culture of medicine where doctors have a hard time simply saying, "I'm not an expert in your condition, I'm going to need some outside consultation."

SCI has a steep fucking learning curve, especially when the dominoes start to fall.  It's easy for those of us who have been injured for decades to say, "Shoulda known!"  But I remember those first years when there was still so much to learn, when I still had so much trust in the medical establishment, I was still beginning to really grasp how quickly things could go wrong, and, finally, still learning how important it was for me to speak up when I felt something wasn't right with my body, even when doctors would disagree.,Thank you for your thoughts! Honestly I believe that was one of the biggest issues, there was no single person overseeing the case. I am just trying to decide if I just want to let it go or pursue it with the hospital.Infected Ulcers! My story kinda.,I'ma come back and tell some stories of my recent almost death over this crap. U got a lot to take in let me scheduale a time for this one and I'd love to share as well.,I'm way down to hear your story!! What happened? I saw your message a couple days ago and have been super curious. They moved my flap surgery to the 8th so I've got plenty of time to listen.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Treatment options,I also see an osteopath monthly for adjustmentsPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Learning to drive?,Depending on where you live you can probably find an adaptive driving clinic. The outpatient clinic I went to for therapy also had a driving rehab clinic that was run by an OT who was also a certified driving instructor. The clinic owned some vehicles with various types of hand controls just like a driver's Ed school would own some cars. I did a few sessions of practice in their car and then used their car to take the normal state driving test. I drove before my accident so I needed fewer classes than you may need depending on your state's requirements. 

If you have any questions about hand controls, driving, modifications, etc feel free to reach out via comment or DM. My older sister is actually an OT and driving rehab instructor so I know a decent amount about adaptive driving beyond just my own experience.,☝🏻☝🏻☝🏻 What they said. I’m a C3, incomplete. I was fortunate that I transitioned from inpatient acute rehab to an OP therapy clinic that offered an adaptive driving clinic. It could be called adaptive driving services, medical driving rehabilitation program, or just driver rehabilitation program. If you don’t have one in your area, or need help finding one, your PT or OT can usually find one. I’m addition some DME companies know of clinics that do this evaluation and training.,Another +1 to this. I took drivers ed in high school summer school, and did the written test as you'd usually expect at DMV. Found a major driving school in my area (SoCal) that also offered adaptive lessons, and then used their car to take the test, but didn't actually get my own car until about five years later.

That said, a lot also depends on your level of injury as well: I'm a complete T-12, but had plenty of upper body strength even back then. The hand controls themselves don't require a ton of strength to operate: if you can open a door you can operate the controls, but it does get tiring during long drives at first.Learning to drive?,I got my driver's license in rehab and it was honestly super easy. Don't worry about it you'll be fineLearning to drive?,sorry i can’t contribute *all* that much to help you, but firstly i just wanted to say that i’m in the EXACT same boat as you are! i also had my injury before i’ve learnt how to drive, and i’ve been confused about it all. i’ve been debating on whether or not to even take drivers ed in school, but like you, i want to be independent. the main thing i’d focus on what *you* are comfortable with, and figure out what you can do, and what you struggle with physically. it’s been super helpful for me to just talk to everyone, medical professionals, teachers, family, etc. about what i’m worried about when it comes to driving. just getting my thoughts out there, and seeing what other people can contribute to the conversation. it can feel weird, but most times, it’s super helpful to get outside input, especially from people who already drive! but remember, you know yourself better than anyone else, so don’t make decisions based on others opinions if you don’t agree with them or if you’re not comfortable with them. i wish you luck on your driving journey, and know that it’s oddly comforting to hear that somebody else is going through something like i am haha! you’re definitely not alone!,Aww well thank you for your input!! Youre right, it is comfortable knowing others are thinking the same thing. Most people on the subreddit had their injury later in life, so theres a lot of things that are unsure for us :) it sounds like youre a bit younger than me, so if you need any advice on things feel free to message me !! :)Learning to drive?,Honey I hope you’re prepared for a long time before you can even start practising. I applied for a provisional licence just after my 16th and I haven’t even started lessons yet (I turn 19 in 2 months). 
Firstly you have to have a expert in disability driving write a report saying that you can drive safely and what adaptions you would need. Then you have to apply and wait for your license to arrive (it took mine around 5 months). Then you need to start shopping around for cars with the adaptions required or, if the adaptions are unique and you can afford it, get in touch with a adaption company and order a bespoke car. If it is built from scratch, that can take 3+ months. Meanwhile, you have to look for a instructor who specialises in adaptive driving and start practising your theory. 
It is such a long and draining process that is necessary for you to be able to drive safely. PM if you want to chat in more detail X,oh dear that is a lot haha, but thanks for the input! Hopefully if I start the applying part of it this summer I can take care of the rest by next summer. Thanks again for the honest rundown :)Learning to drive?,It was really easy, and almost all the other injuries I know drive too. Like others said, try to find an adaptive driving school, or teacher, or clinic, or whatever. I got a note from a Doc saying the controls were necessary and scheduled the test ASAP. Test was at a normal registry with nothing special in regards to my situation. Honestly take the courses and go for it. Worst case they deny you and you try again after some time practicing and reviewing.,Okay sweet! I didnt think about needing a doctors note, so thank you for bringing it up!Learning to drive?,I was 16 when I was injured and didn’t drive. I started the process of trying to drive when I was 19 and I didn’t start driving until I was 22. Not sure if you live in the US or not but if it’s the US look up if they have a state run program that can help you pay for it. Mine is called OVR(office of vocational rehabilitation) their goal is to help people find jobs and go to school and in order to do that you need transportation. When I first applied I got denied but was approved the second time. They paid for my 12 driving lessons. There was a rehab near me that had a driving school so I went to them and used their car for the drivers test. After that I looked for cars. Due to getting help with passing for it the van had to be a certain year or newer and less than 50,000 miles. I payed for the van and OVR paid for the modifications which were $34,000. I had done fundraising so that I could afford the van. I am a c6-c7 so I chose to get a van. You can also go the route of finding a used van if you can’t get a new one. Fair warning it is all expensive. If you can do fundraising I would suggest that. If you live in the US and have more questions feel free to pm me!Learning to drive?,Do u have access to basic tools materials and a vehicle. I made my own controls and have improved them over the years to a state I enjoy. Better than the thousand dollar setups that are out of reach for so many. And in the grand scheme I've never been retested after the accident but I was also fortunate enough to allready have a license and keep using itPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Anybody got experience with the Stem-Cell treatment/therapy?,Using a buzzword to make money off the desperate.Anybody got experience with the Stem-Cell treatment/therapy?,Let's be honest here guys. We're not walking anytime soon. If ever. Especially those of us that have been injured for many many years. That's not what these treatments are for.  Many of them are trying to sell it as such, but the reality is it's not going to happen.

What is a potential is getting small perhaps even micro gains. Have a better sense of when you need to go to the bathroom, say. Or maybe you can slightly move your fingers now... Nothing earth-shattering.

I have a friend that's T5 complete. She has done everything and anything including going to India and getting prahnic healing.  She got stem cell therapy from some clinic in Minnesota at the end of last year. She tends to be kinda vague about anything that she's gained, but she does claim to feel better, have less spasms, and generally feel stronger. I don't know if that's attributed to the cells actually working, or if it's a mind over matter issue.  I'm rooting for her, but I I'm a realist bordering on pessimism. I don't think she's ever going to walk down the aisle at her wedding like she hopes to. 

Frankly if something can give me bowel, bladder, or sexual function back. I'd be a happy girl. All three would be awesome, but I'd take any one of the three.,While all that is definitely true, you’d be surprised how much even slight finger function can improve quality of life for a quad.Anybody got experience with the Stem-Cell treatment/therapy?,Unfortunately none of this stuff really works (yet ?) - otherwise I wouldn't be in a wheelchair right now.,Do you have direct experience with such a treatment or is the lack of peer reviewed studies your main point?Anybody got experience with the Stem-Cell treatment/therapy?,There are places in the US that do Stem Cell treatment. 

I’m a T5 and have not had these procedures done but do know somebody who has had them done. I’m not sure what benefits they give but but he is still paralyzed.Anybody got experience with the Stem-Cell treatment/therapy?,Low level quad I knew spent 25k to get stem cells (not sure what kind) treatment. 

I asked him if it helped. He said he can kind of feel when he has to go use the washroom. That's it. Hes still in his chair and with next to no hand function. 

Save your money.Anybody got experience with the Stem-Cell treatment/therapy?,I went into biomedical engineering after being injured thinking I would find a cure for spinal cord injuries. About a month into my first semester I had my dreams crushed when it comes to the promises of stem cells. Its not sciences fault, but the use of stem cells is entirely based on if your body takes it in and uses it for the target goal, which is quite difficult for the nervous system to do. There are other possibilities, though, that I hope to work for in the future. But for now, stem cell therapies are not FDA approved however users may try it of they feel like taking the pricey riskAnybody got experience with the Stem-Cell treatment/therapy?,I was a subject in a year-long phase 1 Schwann cell clinical trial at the University of Miami's project to cure paralysis. Not the same as stem cells. They harvested the cells from a nerve in my calf and injected the cells at my level of injury. I am a C5 complete injury. So far nothing has changed in regard to my function, feeling, etc., but the stuff they do there is extremely promising.Anybody got experience with the Stem-Cell treatment/therapy?,https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03979742

From hearing him speak, in studies done already in China and India they actually got really good functional return from just the 6-6-6 intense physical therapy routine without stem cells. There's no magic pill unfortunately. I included a link to his latest study with umbilical cord stem cells that was supposed to start this year. It's the first US study if I remember correctly, which is a big first step for FDA approved treatments.Anybody got experience with the Stem-Cell treatment/therapy?,Stem cell therapy has the potential to restore and regenerate spinal cord nerves damaged by trauma. But this has not yet been proven. Research in this area is mostly at the experimental stage. Therefore, I think that there is no point in spending a lot of money on a ghostly hopeAnybody got experience with the Stem-Cell treatment/therapy?,it all depends on the degree of damage to the spinal cord. If there is no tear and there is only a severe bruise, everything will recover over time. if the brain is torn, you have big problems and will have to deal with self-healing for many yearsAnybody got experience with the Stem-Cell treatment/therapy?,only a combination of long-term physical training, pranayama practices, and meditative training has a small but effective effect in cases of severe spinal cord injuriesPosted Question, Comment, Reply
How to motivate family member with SCI,I think I can understand how he may feel. When I started walking again everyone was constantly praising me and encouraging me and it felt suffocating and almost a bit insulting after a while. Yes, I know it's a big deal to do any sort of walking after a SCI, but I also hated all of that praise and stuff too. I would get so angry at it all bc I would be thinking "you praise a 1 year old for taking 10 steps in 20 minutes, don't praise me (23 at the time) for doing the same fucking thing". It felt patronizing after a while and only made me feel kinda worse about it. I just wanted people to treat me like normal, not like a toddler. 

Maybe he's feeling that too? Try just talking to him about it. It feels weird to be freshly injured, people can treat you like you're helpless, they have the best of intentions, but it still is a hard thing to deal with.How to motivate family member with SCI,I agree with the other commentor, give it time. I’m about a year and a half post injury (C5 C6 complete) and only now am I interested in trying to better myself and really live again. Best of luck to you guys :-)How to motivate family member with SCI,Give him some time. It took me a couple years to come to grips with being paralyzed for the rest of my life.How to motivate family member with SCI,I agree with the time comments. Its hard to explain how he feels and what he's going through to someone who hasnt had to deal with it. So patience and time is my suggestion.How to motivate family member with SCI,It's not for everyone, but speaking to a psychiatrist and getting on antidepressants could help. If he doesn't want to help himself he's probably depressed.How to motivate family member with SCI,Two thoughts, has he had the opportunity to speak to anyone with a spinal cord injury to get a better sense of their journey. You can find him one through the Christopher Reeves Foundation.  [https://www.christopherreeve.org/get-support/get-a-peer-mentor](https://www.christopherreeve.org/get-support/get-a-peer-mentor)

I'd also attempt to get him into formal therapy if he's not already involved. I know I might respond very differently to my family telling me to do something as compared to a professional.How to motivate family member with SCI,You want to make a man cry for his weakness ? I don't agree with you here. first, it is necessary to find something positive in any situation, something that will help further recovery in the difficult and long struggle for health. There is no point in looking for the culprits. and there's no point in blaming yourself..How to motivate family member with SCI,Ask him what he thinks about this? Does he want you to push him so he does it, or does he want you to back off for a while so he can wrap his head around this? Or is he already doing a much as he feels he can, without it affecting the rest of his day (pain/energy/sleep/strength).

Could you make it easier on him by doing something fun "normal" while he's training?

Stand and cook together, it will make time pass quicker and distract from pain issues while you chat. Bonus: food after. Sandwich, salad, or full dinner, whatever works.

Listen to an audiobook or serialized podcast while he exercises, so it's something you both/all can look forward to, and no walking means you won't know what happens next. Maybe start with a short book. 

Or you and the rest of the family do a full pushup for each step he takes, so you can all struggle together to get stronger, and make it a little competitive. Winner at the end of the week gets control of the TV remote for the night or something.How to motivate family member with SCI,Just show him how lucky he is to be able to walk and hold on with his hands. Tell him about the thousands of people whose lives have been a nightmare since their spinal cord was severed. You can tell him that it will take another year or two of intense training and he will feel as like if nothing happened,I strongly disagree with this. I'm an L1 incomplete and have a lot of ability compared to other people with SCI. Anytime anyone told me how lucky I was it just made me angry at them.

Sure, I was lucky compared to some people. But I was also horribly unlucky compared to the entire able-bodied population. Just because someone reminded me that some people have it worse didn't make my situation suddenly sucks less. Those comparisons only made me feel guilty for feeling bad and angry at the person telling me because they had no idea how hard it is to loose any amount of ability.

Every SCI is different. Every person's reaction and way of processing their new reality is different. But in my experience comparing myself to others never brought anything positive. 

OP, some days your dad my feel like shit and not want to do anything. And that's OK. He's allowed to be angry and bitter and sad. He had so much taken away from him, that's a natural reaction. If he never is able to move past that it's probably good to seek mental health help. But he's only 10mo out. He's doing a lot of processing. It takes time to come to terms with what happened and have the energy or the desire to push himself.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Leg function limited arm?,Look up 'central cord syndrome',Also check spinal cord syrinx. Given the injury and worsening after post op normal function, this is a possibility. You would need an MRI.Leg function limited arm?,Have you had an EMG? It sounds like there may have been peripheral nerve damage.,I’ve had 2. One showed a loss of nerve signals at the C8 level of my spinal cord and one showed nothing. Completely healthy signal. But I have a 3 tier spinal fusion. Had an a completely unstable fracture at 2 levels with a bend in my spinal cord. They rushed me to the hospital and completely removed my completely crushed C6 and fused me with a metal plate and and 4 bolts. My C5 facet joint was fractured clean off and removed as well. They said there was a significant spinal fluid leak and build up but the source was never found and they had hoped there wouldn’t be more. It had seemed to stop and they couldnt risk staying in to locate it. I had optical damage and ruptured all the blood vessels in my left eye during the procedure and have vision problems now as well. I was fine for about 6 months, full function. Began to lose function again after that.Leg function limited arm?,Central cord syndrome manifests the way you describe, although it doesn't make much sense given your situation...,I just looked it and plan to look it up further, I broke my neck (cervical spine) in 2 places from a car accident after suffering a severe neck trauma from the airbag after flipping and rolling multiple times?Leg function limited arm?,usually with such an injury, the function of the legs is preserved, and the function of the hands suffers, even if there is no severe damage to the spinal cord. be patient, do hand training and breathing exercises using the Buteyko method. It also helps to influence the acupuncture points on the handsPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Artificial urinary sphincter,I asked my uro about this before.  He said the AUS is good for cases were the sphincter doesn't work but the bladder can empty(examples he gave were prostate surgery and injuries to the urinary track). With retention the bladder still won't empty completely and needing to cath still...but with the added issue of the AUS making that more difficult.,That sucks. You would really think there would be a robotic solution to something as simple as a sphincter by nowArtificial urinary sphincter,Not sure if we are talking about the same thing, but here is a copy-paste of what I wrote regarding a Mitrofanoff procedure in an older post:

I've had mine for about a year. I am a C5 with very limited hand function. My mitrofanoff exits in the navel. As far as I know it depends on your preference and the actual length of your appendix (or substitute).

Due to a spastic sphincter muscle leading to my bladder normal cathing was very problematic (several urologists struggled for 20-30 minutes sometimes) I used a supra pubis for a long time. After a year or so I started having problems with bladder stones and bacterial colonization. While I did not experience any UTI symptoms the detritus from the bacteria were so numerous that the whole tube could be clogged by them. In addition the cath openings would get clogged by calcareous deposits. Even when I ate/medicated to keep the pH levels good a size 14 would only last for about 10 days before I had to change it. Needless to say this became very tiresome.

My experience with the mitrofanoff is very positive. I can usually hold 400-500 ml, though I usually keep to a routine of cathing every 3-4 hours (I've been recommended to not surpass 400 ml as a general rule). I usually produce more in the evening than the morning, so I guess you should just cath more often first until you learn how your body operates. I can feel a tingling sensation in my neck when the capacity is stretched, and sometimes if I chug a lot of liquid I might feel it before I usually would. I think the more rapid expansion of the bladder might trigger this.

As mentioned I have very poor hand control, so my assistants do the procedure, but it only takes 4-5 minutes and the whole procedure is very easy once learned. I have only had slight symptoms of UTIs after getting the mitrofanoff and they never developed further. A big bonus when I no longer need a bag is to be able to wear shorts in the summer etc. If I am going to a party or similar i simply attach a bag to a cath and don't need to worry about capacity.

I do take botox injections in my bladder every 3 months to keep my spastic bladder under control. During those procedures it has been confirmed that I do not have any bladder stones so far (they removed 15+ before the mitrofanoff procedure.

The main (only? ) negative was the post op period. I usually feel absolutely fine after surgeries, and this was the case the first two days. I was up in my electric chair and visiting my post accidental ward chatting about. From the third day however I started vomiting gall and generally felt... terrible. it's actually hard to remember exactly what I felt but as I worsened over the next few days I have never in my life felt as bad as that. After a while it was discovered that the cause was an elius/twisted intestine (a risk with all similar operations), and I was re-operated 5 or 6 days after the first operation. It took maybe 2 more days before the clog was sorted, and I have never been more relieved. I lost about 20 lbs and have only now reached my pre op weight. Maybe they discovered it late since I couldn't directly feel below my chest. It meant I had Christmas at the hospital in 2017 but that is all forgotten now, just make sure they check for elius if you start hurling gall etc ;)

Edit: I was slightly distraught with the functionality at first. After about a month of letting everything heal the first attempts were very difficult when trying to get the cath in. After a while this sorted itself and is not a problem at all anymore. The capacity could also be as little as 50-100 ml in the beginning before I would start sensing the tingling (which will be followed by headaches or leakage after a while). This also got better as the bladder got used to being filled again (supra pubis = tiny bladder).

TL;DR: Very happy with mine in combination with botox bladder treatment + beware of symptoms of elius a few days post op. I wish you good luck and I think you will be happy with the results!,I also have a Mitrofanoff (~15 years) but the opening has become obstructed by scar tissue and I intermittent cath, so everytime I have to urinate, it takes longer and longer and becoming more and more painful (5+ minutes). 

That's why I'm looking for an alternative. It just seems like there should be a way for me, in my situation, to mostly do away with catheters.  Like a small circle with a slot that opens and closes that you can control externally would be completely possible...

I'm glad you found something that works for you!Artificial urinary sphincter,Anyone have both the Aus and the pump?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Difficulty breathing when bending down?,I also have this.Difficulty breathing when bending down?,Happens to me as well. When you fold over like that to tie a shoe or pick something up from the ground you are putting your weight on your lungs.,I just wondered why I find it hard now but didn't before. Maybe I am pressing down hard without realising? I don't know..Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Bowel Accidents,Maybe ask about bulking agents? It sounds like your problem might be the stool is too loose and a bulking agent might do the work to shore it up so you have less accidents? Or, maybe you should switch out to suppositories? I use nonstimulant suppositories, bit of digistim and sometimes fybrogel (a bulking agent) and haven't had any problems - just because Peristeen works to soften the stool, so maybe you might need something to start your process like the stimulant suppository but not necessarily soften to the same extent?,So do you take fybrogel to harden or soften the stool? I googled it and it seems that fybrogel is a laxative. I want to have less accidents by maybe making my stool less runny if that makes sense.Bowel Accidents,I have started eating less and it helped alot. Had accidents at least once a week before. 
Now i eat one small meal a day and try to avoid snacks and other fatty foodsBowel Accidents,I have learned that that queasy feeling for me is usually pressure from GI track that is unable to go down, usually because something (large turd or even my seat) is blocking it, or it has decided to dump a large amount of fluid from high up. If I go sit on the toilet at that point I will often be able to poop and feel much better.  
Usually the culprits causing it for me are fast food, eating too much food (grandma's meals), skipping meals, or antibiotics wiping out my good gut bacteria.Bowel Accidents,Have you talked to your primary doctor about this? I got referred to a GI specialist and he wanted to rule out anything serious/treatable. After a colonoscopy and biopsy that was negative, he said IBS. “Try to avoid stressful situations.” lolPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Outlook for my uncle.,I would worry about getting the broken vertebrae set properly to avoid injuring the spinal cord further. Bruising/swelling turning into a permanent situation due to improper treatment of my spine fracture is what led to the bone cutting halfway through the spinal cord.

Your uncle is in pole position to recover, and well. He may have a few motor deficits here and there, but they may need to wait for some swelling to go down before they can properly evaluate his progress. 

But do get the bone thing fixed so he can start safe PT ASAP! The sooner, the better for recovery.

I’m 26 years on from my injury. The technology available today is dizzying. If they indicate they may want to do a fusion for the spine, ask for the flexible bars one that doesn’t completely immobilise your spine. Just keep him immobilised for now while the fractures heal/are dealt with.Outlook for my uncle.,Hi, I'm in a similar situation but 6 months later. My dad went into the hospital for sepsis in December, it turned into a specific spot of infection in his spine which caused a T5 Injury

&#x200B;

Worry about the damage to the spinal cord because bones can heal, nerves can't. That being said, a bruised spinal cord is an incomplete injury which means the cord wasn't completely severed so some function or sensation is still possible below the injury site. . I found this website to be very helpful:  [https://www.christopherreeve.org/](https://www.christopherreeve.org/)

&#x200B;

My sister and I are his only involved family so I understand the overwhelming feeling of become care givers in an instant and mourning for the future you were expecting. First thing I would say is continue to visit your uncle and listen to what he has to say. The first couple weeks, lots of visitors came, now in month 6 that number is significantly lower.

&#x200B;

Secondly, your dad will have a case manager at the hospital. This is the person who can help you find information, organizations and support in your area, for your uncle and his family. Your aunt should also be able to call the nursing station and get information about what's going on. The nurses know what the doctor has put in the charts and are easier to get a hold of usually. Your aunt should also be able to ask that his doctor call her if she has access to his medical info.

&#x200B;

Feel free to ask or message me any questions you have. After 6 months, we have become experts in some topics we had no interest in learning. I do not have a SCI but I can help from the family side of things.Outlook for my uncle.,Also, for resources, you may want to indicate your general area. Each US state has different options. Then the U.K. has a robust social services department that handles OT and carers. I don’t know how it works in Canada.Outlook for my uncle.,If the spinal cord is not damaged and only subjected to a strong impact, everything will be fine. Of course, you will have to undergo several operations to replace the vertebral bodies and spend a lot of time on rehabilitation. I wish your uncle a speedy recovery !Outlook for my uncle.,It might take several weeks for swelling of the spinal cord to go down enough for doctors to to determine a diagnosis and do a full assessment of nerve function. During the healing process it’s common for sensation and movement to better or worsen itself. If I’m correct and the experimental drug they gave him is meant to slow the onset of paralysis, his outlook might be better than if he had gone without it. It is very likely too early to tell what life might look like for him from now on. Wishing you and your family the best of luck. 

On a side note, please refer your aunt to the Facebook discussion group WAGS of SCI - Wives and Girlfriends of Spinal Cord Injury. It’s a supportive community of women whose partners have sustained spinal cord injuries. Some are full time caregivers to their partners while some have hired outside help. It’s important that while your aunt is supporting your uncle through this time, she feels supported too.Outlook for my uncle.,And to clarify, he didn’t fracture only c2 and c6, he fractured 2,3,4,5 and 6.,DamnOutlook for my uncle.,> Basically, his neck crushed into his back (if that makes sense.)

It makes enough sense that there ist a medical term for this type injury:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vertebral_compression_fracture


> Despite having a broken neck, should we be more worried about the spinal cord or the broken c2-c6?

Bones heal, or they can be at least be fixed with appropriate medical bits of metal. The possible issues arising from broken vertebrae are a lot less severe than those from even a slightly damaged spinal cord.

Unfortunately, the best predictor for neurological recovery is current neurological status. The fewer neurological deficiences the patient shows right after the injury, the faster and more complete his recovery is likely to be. The more neurological functionality (sensation and muscle control below the injury level) your uncle has now, the better the outlook for recovery.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Who do you use for medical supplies?,https://www.medline.com/ through a managed healthcare organization. 

Price check https://www.allegromedical.com/ for retail expenditures.Who do you use for medical supplies?,I get mine at CostcoWho do you use for medical supplies?,180medical is what I use,Also this one, eBay for everything else. But seriously 180Medical is fantastic.Who do you use for medical supplies?,Edgepark is soo bad. They gave me the one box period thing too. They also stopped approving his briefs due to not being able to prove he needs them.. but we’ve been getting them over two years. I use 180 medical now and they’ve actually been awesome.Who do you use for medical supplies?,SportAid.com out of Georgia.
Discount Prices
Fast Shipping
No Questions AskedWho do you use for medical supplies?,I use Liberator for catheters and lube. Until recently I purchased my gloves out of pocket at Sams/Costco, but this year my new medicare supplement plan (Anthem MediBlue Extra) gives me a $150 every 3 months to spend on over the counter stuff at Walmart.Who do you use for medical supplies?,Mckesson Patient Care Solutions, renamed to Adapt Health Patient Care solutions as of 2020Who do you use for medical supplies?,Nextra Health (formerly St Louis Medical)

Though gloves, I still try to snag them from amazon when possible. I ran into your same issues recently, getting a doctor write a prescription helped for the two months before I started being able to find them on amazon again. Although that’s probably stupid of me, since gloves are so much cheaper with a prescription.

Edit: someone else in the thread suggested Costco. Their 400 glove packs are certainly ideal. Good bang for your buck.,Oh and occasionally North Shore Medical for diapers.Who do you use for medical supplies?,Has anyone tried tomorrow health?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Year and a half post. Beginning to notice rounded shoulders and bad posture.,Check with any PT to develop this.  Probably an OT too since it’s upper body.

All day long pushing a wheelchair, you’ve been strengthening mostly muscles that flex so now, at the end of your day, you need to stretch those out and strengthen the ones that extend. Your biceps and pecs are monstrous but the little ones between your shoulder blades that expand your chest out and pull your shoulders back have been ignored.

I have this old PT that loves to humiliate Wisconsin badger hockey players who think that they are the pinnacle of human achievement. She puts them face down on the mat, has them extend their arms all the way out, they either point their thumbs towards their head or towards the ceiling (I forget), lock elbows and then gives them little 2.5 pound barbells and ask them to do a small set with them. To their amazement, the little muscles that pull their scapulas together have been ignored in their work out routines and this 60-year-old lady can outperform them.,Um... Is the PT Barb or Judy, by chance?,Do you have any recommendations on how to stretch those muscles and work out the others?Year and a half post. Beginning to notice rounded shoulders and bad posture.,I second the other poster’s recommendation to see a PT or OT to make sure you have an appropriate exercise program. 

Also, check in with the seating specialist that issued your wheelchair for a seating assessment. If your cushion and backrest aren’t positioning you properly and giving you the support you need you have no choice but to compensate with a more rounded posture to get stability.Year and a half post. Beginning to notice rounded shoulders and bad posture.,Hi. Can you use your hands ? if so, thank God for it and do workouts !Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Awkward question,Probably not, sadly.

Something I'll warn you about (my doctor didn't) is that it takes about a week for the Botox to work, and your capacity will probably be reduced for a day or two.  A little frightening when it happens, but it's temporary.,Thanks I was wondering about that because I feel like I'm always full but I've got meds for a week or so.,Thread necromancy, question since you know about botox injection. It's been almost 2 weeks and I don't know if it's a result of the injections or coming off meds but my spasticity has been crazy and my capacity has stayed at like half it was before. I have a follow up with my doctor in a week but this is annoying and I'm not sure if I should keep waiting it out or if this is normal.Awkward question,Interesting. Because they descend from the abdomen, testes innervation is from higher in the spinal cord, around T10-L2, so you might have some sensation at least to T10.Awkward question,Eh, I’m supposed to be a T5 complete and I’ve been able to feel my testicles getting knocked around for most of the duration of my injury.,Ain't that a bitch, you can feel your testicles getting hurt but you can't feel any pleasure.Awkward question,I'm surprised they let you do it without anesthesia. I've had a botox injection into my bladder done twice and they won't let me get it done without anesthesia. I'm t10 complete. I don't know why, because I can't feel anything below my belly buttonAwkward question,This is normal. The testicular and anal regions are best equipped with nerve endings, so you can feel them. To increase sensitivity, you can do training using the Buteyko method - this also activates the nervous transmission in the legs. Do not forget about leg training, do it for 3-5 hours a day. Start with the coach and then do everything yourself. Gradually everything will recover. I wish you to be strong and persistent on this path !Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Valsalva?,I used to do this as well, but found out valsalva is not recommended as it can lead to bladder and kidney damage over time, as well as increased risk of heart disease/complications!,[Hey, partner, com’on you gotta relax. Don’t force it or you’re gonna blow out your o-ring!](https://youtu.be/BDTUM7qjKTI)Valsalva?,Three Times a day? No wonder you leak in between. 
I go five times and that can be a little too little.,We’re still figuring out what’s best for me with my urologist. Currently, he has me cathing but only after I urinate which I believe is so my bladder is trained to empty itself better. I can urinate large quantities (100-200CCs) I just don’t empty completely. Of course the downside is that I can’t hold it in and have to wear a diaper wherever I go.Valsalva?,Like others have said this isn't a good idea as it can cause damage.Valsalva?,3 times is way too low. T10 complete here, for 10 yrs, and I do it according to fluid intake and weather in my city. If it's too hot going upto 37-38 degree Celsius, I do it twice or thrice with no leaks. When temperatures go down to around 22-23 degree Celsius, I do it almost every 2.5hrs. Fluid intake also reduces. When I go drinking, I do it every hour. Leaks happen when the temperature takes a dip in the city. In my opinion, we need to understand our body system a lot to know what works for us. Trying out multiple methods, timings.Valsalva?,I did this for a few years at the start, but have since switched to intermittent catheterization on advice of my urologist. There are trade-offs both ways, but in general the catheterization is much less stressful.Valsalva?,Usually, many people with spinal injuries use the method of tapping and pressing on the bladder. This is also not a good way out, but still better than a f\*\*\*ng catheterPosted Question, Comment, Reply
This is sickening.,Yeah, to be honest I haven't gotten a speeding ticket since I was paralyzed. I get pulled over, cop walks up asks for DL, insurance. Sees chair in passenger seat and hand controls and I get a warning.This is sickening.,This is horrendous. He could have suffered a bone break when he fell.,Could have very easily died from AD. Also nice username.This is sickening.,Jesus...This is sickening.,Civil suit would be easy for me. I already won a large judgement so I'd want them fired with the stipulation they could never be a cop again.This is sickening.,While I agree this is poor and unjustified behavior on the part of the officers there’s two important things to remember:

1) This was 2 years ago and not related in any way to the George Floyd incident

2) We have no idea what the context is here or what happened before the camera started rolling.,Regarding point 1: My understanding of the current protests is they are about the long history of abuse by police officers against the vulnerable. And by vulnerable I mean any person that is being abused by a police officer.

And point 2: we do know at least 2 heavily armed officers chose to drag a disabled person out of a car and onto the ground. Is it normal practice to physically pull someone suspected of having a weapon out of the car? They chose a violent, dangerous and humiliating method to carry out their duties. I would contend that irrespective of what happened prior to the incident, this was totally unwarranted.

These are my opinions, but as you rightly say, we weren't there, we don't know.,I know your tongue might be one of the only typically functioning parts of your body, but you don’t have to use it to lick the police’s boots 24/7.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
My story,How did the driver die? Did they not stop at the crosswalk or were u not supposed to cross? Hope ur doing well,The light was green for us but that car was coming at a very high speed. When it hit me I was sliding 3 meters on asphalt and the car crashed into a nearby tree killing the driver on impact. I'm doing well, thanks for asking!My story,DON't worry, you have your whole life ahead of you ! Train a lot, develop yourself and everything will improve !,My depression is kind of preventing me from improving, but I do train a lotMy story,>  I was walking home from school with my mother and I got hit by a car on the crosswalk. The driver later died in the hospital.

Whoa. Usually, I get angry when I hea that someone caused an accident that turned a bystander into a paraplegic and yet barely got as much as a scratch, but that's a bit much.,yeah, it's crazyMy story,I'm sorry you had to go through that are you okay right now ?,yes, I'm doing goodMy story,That is a horrific story, but I'm really glad you're still here today. I can't imagine what it's like to have an SCI, but I do have chronic physical and mental illnesses (gastroparesis, IBS, ADHD, depression, and anxiety) that has made life interesting. As hard as it can be, life goes on and if you feel particularly down or need someone to talk to, my DMs are always open. You still have a lot of life ahead of you.My story,Hey t11/incomplete aswell. How are youPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Amputation with SCI?,Kinda in the same wheelhouse, I use leg braces as an L1 complete. A big thing is going to be balance, but the most important thing is going to be being hyper aware for skin issues around the prosthetic, especially if you’re losing the foot because of skin issues. You and your prosthetist should have a really good working relationship and you should be able to get Appointments for adjustments easily. 
Don’t get discouraged if it takes awhile to get the fit or if they have to start over. This kind of stuff is just like wheelchairs in that there is no “standard size” only “obnoxiously custom”. 

I hoe whatever happens you get some relief from the pain!,Yeah I agree, I've since been really trying to get more comfortable with weight bareing on my right leg, but it will take some practice I thinkAmputation with SCI?,I just had a right leg, above the knee amputation, for severe non-healing wounds and worries about lingering infection causing system wide terrible. So far I find life a bit easier. But, I have no muscle control so I'll never get the chance to walk.
I think you should try your damnedest to get out there and walk as best you can and show that doctor he doesn't know everything.,Did you find any healing issues with reduced blood flow etc?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
How long is a cushion supposed to last?,Your cushion won’t last 5 years. Each person is different but mine can break in with impressions with in a few months. It just depends on how much you can tolerate and your finances for replacing.How long is a cushion supposed to last?,I’d check with the cushion manufacturer. Some of those have a lifetime guarantee. The frame of my backrest broke so I contacted the manufacturer. The chair was over 5 years old. They contacted the DME provider and replaced it immediately. I’ve never replaced a cushion though. I’ve had them wear out, but they were still functional so I never bothered checking. But it’s worth looking into.

Also, I’d suggest loosening up the axle pipe and nudging out the camber tubes that hold the wheels. Not a ton so it doesn’t make it hard to get through doors, but just a little to relieve the rubbing on your jeans.How long is a cushion supposed to last?,It depends on your insurance tbh. I think I get a new one covered every year, definitely see if your PCP will push for necessary replacementsHow long is a cushion supposed to last?,What type of cushion? Is it a solid material (like a foam) or does is have bladders (usually filled with air, sometimes with gel).,It's a jay fusion that's mainly foam but has a jell area for the butt.How long is a cushion supposed to last?,That compression is from transferring? I have gone through 3 roho hybrid elites in the past 10 years pretty much for the same reason. I put my left hand on the cushion getting in an out of the car and toilet. After a while you just push it down.How long is a cushion supposed to last?,I have a J2 cushion. The gel part in the butt area works really well for about 3-4 months, and then needs replacing around the year mark.How long is a cushion supposed to last?,My brother has a ROHO cushion for both of his chairs. He has a manual and electric. He’s had them both for 7 years now without any problems so far.How long is a cushion supposed to last?,I change my Supracore (thickest one) every two years.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Trying to find new medical supplier,[deleted],Didn't think after that, thanksTrying to find new medical supplier,180medical I think is the name.,Thanks, I'll look into it,I use them, they have good customer service.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Is it possible to regain lost muscle mass below the level of your injury? If so, how?,Yes! I’m an incomplete para. Was primarily in a wheelchair post injury and now I walk with crutches and can take some steps independently. It’s all about finding the right rehab. The activity based physical rehab model has been tremendously helpful. Where do you live? The first place like this I went to was CORE in Northridge CA. I worked with Taylor for about 10 years. His first client (now business partner) is a quad who is able to walk a bit with canes and does a lot of cool active sports stuff. Most recently I’ve worked with Jeff Lefkovitz at Abilities Recovery Center and prior to that I worked out at Project Walk. 

Send me a DM if you’d like. I’m very familiar with good rehab places in the los angeles area.  I’m sure I could point you in the right direction if you’re somewhere else as well. Hit me up.,Thanks. I'll be sending you a DM.Is it possible to regain lost muscle mass below the level of your injury? If so, how?,I'm a c5 quadriplegic since 2008. Sadly my answer is negative. You can do stuff for maintenance but you won't grow mass.Is it possible to regain lost muscle mass below the level of your injury? If so, how?,Depends. Complete injury, or incomplete?
Can’t really strengthen muscles that you can’t activate.
FES can be used to maintain muscle bulk.Is it possible to regain lost muscle mass below the level of your injury? If so, how?,Check out Carson Tueller and Craig Dennis on Instagram.  They both use FES and have increased the bulk in their thigh muscles. Carson is a C8 quad (I know-interesting, right?) and I think Craig Dennis is a T10-11 para.,I will. Thanks!Is it possible to regain lost muscle mass below the level of your injury? If so, how?,> how do you stay motivated to exercise regularly (move your legs and stuff) knowing you won't be making any substantial gains?

By knowing that if you don't exercise, whatever you have left will deteriorate even further.Is it possible to regain lost muscle mass below the level of your injury? If so, how?,Physical Therapist here.   The main benefits of exercise in the lower limb is to promote healthy circulation and maintaining range of motion.  If you lose range in the ankles for instance, and develop severe drop foot it, can be very difficult to even sit in a wheelchair with feet on footrest.  Thats just an example of one potential issue that could arise.  The purpose is really to ensure better quality of life.  Pressure sores, maintaining regular bowel movements, UTI's, dysreflexia episodes, etc. are already a headache enough so you don't want another problem to deal with.,According to you, how often should one exercise/stretch?,[deleted]Is it possible to regain lost muscle mass below the level of your injury? If so, how?,I am not sure, nor have I heard or seen anyone in my circle gaining muscle mass. Ideally, if one uses sports as rehab or uses sports components for fitness, muscle mass loss is delayed but it is inevitable. I am a t10 complete for close to 10yrs, and saw sudden muscle loss after 7 yrs, primarily due to lifestyle choices around that time. When I started to focus on sports it did slow down.,Thanks for responding. How do you engage those particular muscles even when you use sports for fitness?Is it possible to regain lost muscle mass below the level of your injury? If so, how?,things like FES bikes probably,It would be great to know if it has actually helped anybody with that. I am under the impression that it's more for maintenance.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Hey Wheel fam! Tried fishing for the first time yesterday since my accident! It wasn’t easy but really fun! Anyone else like to fish or hunt?!,I grew up in a rural area where fishing and hunting were pretty common. And I’m close to my grandfather who is big into both. I was paralyzed when I was 13. Prior to that I had really only been pheasant and duck hunting. I did go deer hunting for a few years after being paralyzed. As I got older and went away to college I kinda stopped. I may apply for a deer tag this year. Deadline to get it in is tomorrow, so I’ll have to decide soon. I don’t fish very regularly, but I get out on the water from time to time. During the summer my grandfather gets his boat out on the water every chance he gets. So I’ll probably get back out there sometime in the coming months. Covid might make that a bit harder, so we’ll see.Hey Wheel fam! Tried fishing for the first time yesterday since my accident! It wasn’t easy but really fun! Anyone else like to fish or hunt?!,Nichi/Nicki is an expert worm handler! Marry that girl! 
But seriously.Hey Wheel fam! Tried fishing for the first time yesterday since my accident! It wasn’t easy but really fun! Anyone else like to fish or hunt?!,I live on a lake and would fish daily. Unfortunately is down stairs. Someone donated a lift for me to get down I just need it installed. By end of summer ill be back. Before my accident I had a friend ergo was a quad. He had a John boat that the front would fold down so he could roll in. It was one of his favorite past times.Hey Wheel fam! Tried fishing for the first time yesterday since my accident! It wasn’t easy but really fun! Anyone else like to fish or hunt?!,Used to do both, both job, family and living near a large city mean I don't have time and opportunity anymore.

Though, butchering anything with one lame hand was not fun.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Helpful adaptive equipment?,Batec powerwheel adaptor for my chair 

https://batec-mobility.com/en/products/handbikes/batec-scrambler-enHelpful adaptive equipment?,https://www.liftware.com/

My brother has these to help with eating. And it’s been a lifesaver!! He’s C5 &C6.Helpful adaptive equipment?,I have this thing that helps put my socks on. It is amazing. You put the sock on it and then hook the opening over your toes. Then pull up, "bang." It's great.,Cool, thanks! I'll look into that because that actually sounds like a really decent idea :) any particular brand of thing, or name?Helpful adaptive equipment?,A hand cycle.Helpful adaptive equipment?,I second a batec , got a scrambler and it's the most helpful thing ever. also got one of these for my phone the other week and use it constantly, especially good for taking pics , [https://gettecla.com/products/tecla-phone-mount](https://gettecla.com/products/tecla-phone-mount)Helpful adaptive equipment?,These are handy too  [https://www.activehands.com/shop/](https://www.activehands.com/shop/),In fact they've got a bunch of cool new stuff on there,  [https://www.activehands.com/product/glassouse-wearable-mouse/](https://www.activehands.com/product/glassouse-wearable-mouse/)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
12 months on,So the 1st is 12 months for me since I crashed and burned on a Mountain Bike trip with my boys. 
Today me and my boys went and road trails again...Not quite the same as 12 months ago but gez it was fun12 months on,Good for you u.
 Unfortunately all my $ goes to Cannabis. :( plus getting injured in America is not fun. No extreme sports for me.12 months on,Cool picture and cool bike! Is that hand controlled?,Yes it is,The bike is a Hp Velotechnik scorpion enduro with Shimano steps motor and Di2 shifting.

https://www.hpvelotechnik.com/en/recumbent-trikes-bikes/scorpion-adults-recumbent-trikes/scorpion-fs-26-enduro-offroad-trike/

So I'm peddling and have much needed power assist. Steering is via the handle bars but there in a vertical position. 

Thanks for all the positive comments guys.,I was wondering too12 months on,I’d love to look into that, what’s the brand?,The bike is a Hp Velotechnik scorpion enduro with Shimano steps motor and Di2 shifting.

https://www.hpvelotechnik.com/en/recumbent-trikes-bikes/scorpion-adults-recumbent-trikes/scorpion-fs-26-enduro-offroad-trike/12 months on,Good on you :)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Sex therapists?,[https://www.reddit.com/r/spinalcordinjuries/comments/5rte49/discussion\_sexuality/](https://www.reddit.com/r/spinalcordinjuries/comments/5rte49/discussion_sexuality/)Sex therapists?,Hey OP, I am in the same boat as you. Recent spinal cord compression at L1/2. I have an understanding fiancé but I feel so bad for her now my junk doesn’t work. I feel for you, I hope you find some a sex therapist and some answersSex therapists?,I'm l1, 13 months out, meditation helped a LOT. i'm practising qigong, and Jose Sylva's mind controll. Give it a try it definitely won't hurt,My guy is L1 (almost 10 years) and he uses meditation as a way to have orgasms. We kind of just...have different sex lives than what people are used to? Because of the dampened physical sensation it's usually hands and mouths for us with penis/vagina sex being rare (since he isn't a huge fan of the dick shots) but both of us still feeling very sexually satisfied (with our high libido). OP if you're interested in having a direct conversation with him feel free to DM me, he's been willing to talk to others about his experience and what's worked for him.Sex therapists?,Go to sexualitysci.org it is a really great site that helped me redefine sex after my sci. 

Feel free to PM me if you have any questions about sex :)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Pool Therapy,What's your injury level?,L1Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Parenting with a SCI,I'm not a parent,  but an OT with an SCI who spends a lot of time with my friends' kids.  

I have a hard time running after toddlers,  so I tend to cordon off a small area of the house while I'm watching them.     
  
I can do stairs ok if it's just me,  but not while holding a kid.   If the kid is too young to crawl,  I put them on my lap and butt scoot on the stairs.  If they are old enough to manage stairs,  they go up first (or down last),  and I crawl up behind them keeping a hand in their back to make sure they are steady and safe.   
  
Playing on the ground or while standing is hard so I like playing on a sofa or bed.     
  
I brace my arms on counters or other furniture while I'm holding kids to increase the time I can do so comfortably.     
  
I organize the environment to limit having to carry kids if they are not crawling yet.  Like having as much as possible within reach.   
  
I don't have access to these things at my friends' houses,  but if I have kids I'll definitely get adapted furniture.      
  
When out and about,  I don't use a stroller.  I am the stroller.   Haha  Between this and wheelchair basketball,  I'm pretty good at wheeling one handed.   If I have kids,  I'll probably fashion some kind of safety buckle or wear the little one so I can have both hands free.   
  
  
My friends in OT school made a really cool adapted sling with a sturdy base so a client with weak arms could safely hold their newborn grandson.    
  
One thing to mention is the prejudice against me being a percieved parent.  When buying baby clothes or toys I get a lot of "you don't have kids,  do you?" "These aren't for you,  right?" "These are for your friend? Oh, that's good!"  And lots of incredulous looks from strangers.  None of these things happen when I'm not using my chair.  So one important adaptation is blinders and a thick skin.,Thank you for taking the time to share all this stuff. It's very informative and helpful. You're great.Parenting with a SCI,Hi! I’m also an OT. I learned a lot about parenting with an SCI from an insta account of a mom with an SCI. She hasn’t been posting for the last few months but she has a lot of great stuff saved in her highlights. Her insta handle is @brittanyfisherfrank.,Are you an OT with an SCI too!?  Never met one of our kind before.Parenting with a SCI,You should check out [Roll with Cole & Charisma](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gKTYbf5ilUw)  on YouTube 

Also, a couple quick resources worth checking out:

• [The Christopher Reeve Foundation ](https://www.christopherreeve.org) 
• [Swim with Mike](https://www.swimwithmike.org) 
• [AbleGamers](https://ablegamers.org) 
• [SCI Support Group](https://www.facebook.com/groups/SCPSUSA/learning_content/)

EDIT: Oops, totally misread. Thought you said, “parenting someone with a SCI.” My bad. I think there’s a quadriplegic dad with a YouTube/Facebook page but I can’t find it.Parenting with a SCI,L1 injury which occurred In July of 2019, my daughter was born on Christmas Day 2019. It’s been a roller coaster of adapting and I now take care of the baby/house full time while I recover and get ready to work again.

My take, everything is hilariously expensive unless you have the skills / resources to make some things yourself. The day to day is difficult but not impossible. I wish we could afford a crib that I could safely get her out of, or a stroller attachment to the wheelchair, or the means to adapt our vehicle so I could take her somewhere by myself.

My wife and I live about 4K miles from our nearest relatives, so it’s been forced adaption to make it through. It’s rewarding but I sometimes still have break downs when I think about all the things I’ll never get to experience with my daughter: teaching her to ride a bike, to ski, hiking with my daughter, exploring nature with my daughter, etc. Another trigger is the thought that I may become embarrassing for her because of the injury, not just because I’m a weirdo. It really is heartbreaking and I try to tell myself I can just do it differently, but it’s a lie. My life is measurably shittier because of this, and I wish it never happened everyday.

Still I love my daughter and in any other circumstance I would not have this time with her and for that I am grateful, but it’s a really shitty long term trade.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Has anyone had the epidural stimulator implant?,L3 (I think? Been decades since I saw a neurologist) here. I’m totally with you. Don’t give a shit if I walk again, but some sensation so I can avoid hurting myself, or gain some plumbing control would improve my life so much. Just a smidge more independence, y’know?

I just wonder about whether I’d even be a candidate since I have a full spinal fusion. I don’t exactly relish the thought of drills around my spinal cord so they can gain access. :( ah, well.Has anyone had the epidural stimulator implant?,C2 to C6 here. I would love to try this. It looks very promising and like you it seems more likely to improve quality of life as opposed to guarantying someone would "walk" again.Has anyone had the epidural stimulator implant?,Definitely looks interesting! And I would never complain about another trip to Thailand 😉,How is Thailand as far as accessibility? I want to go feed the elephants!Has anyone had the epidural stimulator implant?,I met a young lady during a rehab stay a while back who had an spinal epidural stimulator implanted. She was a para, for unknown reasons. Her primary struggle, though, were severe neuropathic pain. Beyond my imagination, based on her descriptions of her situation before the stimulator. Which I had no reason not to believe.

Long story short, the stimulator worked for her. It had changed her life completely, according to herself. It seemed easy to operate too: she had a remote on her person at all times which she could adjust the electric impulse intervals, strength of the impulses and so on. And its batteries were charged through induction or magnetism or something. She just attached the charger to her lower back, where the stimulator were placed under her skin.

In regards to help with regaining motor function or bowel function etc I have no idea. But I thought that my "second hand experience" was worth mentioning, because it goes to tell that this technology is more than just a gimmick.,Thanks!Has anyone had the epidural stimulator implant?,My husband was gonna get one put in but since he’s on eliquis. They said no,Was he going to this location? I’m curious what the cost is. Did they give you a number?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Frequent UTI's?,There are some people that have to be placed on a low dose Bactrim daily for life due to chronic UTIs. Here are some other “home” remedies that may help you.


Drink Plenty of Fluids

Drinking plenty of liquids can decrease the risk of UTIs by making you pee more, which helps remove bacteria from the urinary tract.

Increase Vitamin C Intake

Increasing vitamin C intake may decrease the risk of UTIs by making the urine more acidic, thus killing off infection-causing bacteria.

Drink Unsweetened Cranberry Juice

Some studies show that cranberries could help reduce the risk of urinary tract infections by preventing bacteria from adhering to the urinary tract.

Take a Probiotic

Probiotics could help prevent UTIs when used alone or in combination with antibiotics.

Try These Natural Supplements (check with your physician or pharmacist regarding any negative reactions of supplements with your prescription medications.)

Here are a few supplements that have been studied:

D-Mannose: This is a type of sugar that is found in cranberries and has been shown to be effective in treating UTIs and preventing recurrence.

Bearberry leaf: Also known as uva-ursi. One study showed that a combination of bearberry leaf, dandelion root and dandelion leaf decreased UTI recurrence.

Cranberry extract: Like cranberry juice, cranberry extract works by preventing bacteria from adhering to the urinary tract.

Garlic extract: Garlic has been shown to have antimicrobial properties and may be able to block the growth of bacteria to prevent UTIsFrequent UTI's?,It might seem weird but cranberry pills are actually what urologists recommend to prevent UTIs. Vitamin C can also help. If you catheterise, it is important that you have clean hands and a sterile working environment.Frequent UTI's?,Cranberry pills have helped me a lot.Frequent UTI's?,My friend dissolves the mannose d pill into cranberry juice and takes his morning pills with that. It works. (Mannose is from cranberries, he said)Frequent UTI's?,I've been on 50mg nitrofurantoin at bedtime for roughly 8 years. I know an antibiotic everyday isn't great but it's been working really well for me.,[deleted]Frequent UTI's?,Don’t eat as much sugar and take a gulp of apple cider vinegarFrequent UTI's?,Honestly the best thing you can do is drink, drink, and drink water. Staying hydrated helps flush out bacteria that gets into the bladder and urinate tract. I also take the Mannose pills. I believe that it helps. I’ll link what I take below. They are pretty cheap. I take three at once during the day. The next thing is your cath method. Can you provide more info? Are you a male or female? What type of catheter are you using? Might be able to offer more suggestions with that info. I had issues for quite a while too but now I’m down to no more than one to two a year. 


NOW Supplements, D-Mannose 500 mg, Non-GMO Project Verified, Healthy Urinary Tract*, 120 Veg Capsules https://www.amazon.com/dp/B000JN4CR0/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_api_i_Qwn0EbSFTEZDKFrequent UTI's?,I used to get them often. Hiprex tablets were a great thing for me. I know its tedious but changing my bed linen every day instead of every 2 - 3 days made a big difference! Fyi dont take hiprex and cranberry tablets togethetFrequent UTI's?,Hyptex with 500 MG of Vitamin C  every 12 hours & you will eliminate a LOT of UTI's. This stops bacteria from multiplying so you don't become symptomatic.Frequent UTI's?,Completely different approach for me, getting Botox seems to keep UTI's at bay for me. I think that the issue I have is that even a very mild UTI causes bladder spasms in me, and the botox helps fight the spasms. I used to get tested and go on antibiotics 6-10 years a year before botox.... I've been tested for UTIs twice in the last 3 years. Once when I had a decently bad one, and once when my botox was wearing off.  All tests the second time came back negative, but I had many of the signs of a UTI, including leaking as frequently as every 15 minutes.Frequent UTI's?,Ask your urologist about going on a bladder flushing regime. You do low dose oral antibiotics most of the time, flush your bladder with plain saline every night. Then for one week a month, the urologist used to prescribe me a little super concentrated liquid antibiotic you put into the saline that you infused into the bladder and left there for a couple of hours. I did really well with that.

Shame nobody where I am right now seems to know what I’m talking about. 🤷🏻‍♀️Frequent UTI's?,Oh! FYI to everyone. Cranberry juice is the most effective because it has the most mannose content, but if you’re in a pinch and can only find lingonberry juice — it works, too! I guess I live in a weird part of town if I can find lingonberry more easily than cranberry...Frequent UTI's?,I've heard drinking corn silk tea helps.Frequent UTI's?,I’ve been drinking at least 90 oz of water a day, and I take Methanamine and Vitamin C 2 times a day.Frequent UTI's?,a friend and I are both C3 quads with SPTs and we have had great luck with Methenamine.,Thanks, I will ask my doc about it.Frequent UTI's?,I was doing really well for years only getting 1 UTI per year or so. But the past 6 months have been constant UTIs. Within a week of being off antibiotics I would get another one. My doctor finally prescribed me Nitrofurantoin. Its an antibiotic that I take once per day before bed. I really don't want to be on them forever but I can't take the UTIs anymore. Might try getting off them in a few months or something. Hope you get it figured out.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
supra-pubic catheter question-do you still have leakage via urethra/penis.,Not unless it gets block or you have bladder spasmssupra-pubic catheter question-do you still have leakage via urethra/penis.,I've only had leaking when the catheter got clogged or I got a UTI.,This was the case for my husband when he still had his (his bladder function came back). He had no idea he had a UTI, just a bit of fatigue and nausea plus an on-again-off-again low fever, so he had it for way too long. It was miserable, but definitely a learning experience...supra-pubic catheter question-do you still have leakage via urethra/penis.,I’ve recently lost all sensation from the hip down due to spinal cord compression at L1/2. I’ve had a catheter now for a few weeks and there are no leaks or anything bad. They work really well and it’s really nothing when they put it in, it sounds horrific, someone putting a tube up your dickhole but it’s pretty much painless.,Suprapubic catheter (like OP is talking about) goes through a hole in the abdomen.supra-pubic catheter question-do you still have leakage via urethra/penis.,I have never had a regular catheter as my entire urethra was destroyed during my accident. What I can tell you from having a suprapubic catheter for over a year now is that it has been a rollercoaster of learning. I've learned everything from how my body reacts to different materials to how to tell when I have a UTI. Because up until recently we kept using the wrong kind of catheter for me (everyone's body reacts differently) it used to be very very painful when they would remove one to insert another. Now it is painless and no big deal at all. Most of the time I can't tell that I even have a catheter other than sometimes when I move my drain bag I can feel the pressure in the line go up and down. I have a personal preference for using night bags (2000ml) at all times and have never used a leg bag. This is because I use a wheelchair for mobility 98% of the time so it's just more convenient to have a bigger bag that I can just Clio to the wheelchair.,My brother using the anti reflux 2000 overnight bags. Has never used the leg bag. He can always feel the pressure of the line  moving or getting hit or even if it is getting backed up in the line.supra-pubic catheter question-do you still have leakage via urethra/penis.,Thanks for all your responses guys. Just recently I developed an adhesive allergy, so I had to switch to using a penile catheter. Just today it blocked-went dysreflexic, got it changed by RN, couple of hours later block again-then went dysreflexic again. Had enough of this type of catheter nowsupra-pubic catheter question-do you still have leakage via urethra/penis.,Follow up question, how much do you leak- are we talking drips or more of a flow? how do you manage the leakage-pads, towels or similar?,For me, it's usually enough to wet my pants but not enough to reach my wheelchair cushion. Since it's pretty contained I usually don't realize until that night when I'm transferring back to bed. After that I'll usually wear briefs/diapers for the next few days until I figure out what's going on and everything is back to normal.supra-pubic catheter question-do you still have leakage via urethra/penis.,My brother still has a fistula from under his testicles. It’s actually kind of a godsend for the time when his catheter backs up at change time and the urine has no other place to go. So it goes out the fistula. That way he still gets some relief. He’s had his Supra-pubic for about 5 years now I think.,Thank you for the response.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Aunt with T8,I am a T8, she should be able to do her own bowel care. As for showering if the door is big enough to get into and she has access to a bathroom with a tub and shower wand. With one of these

Moen Non Slip Adjustable Transfer... https://www.amazon.com/dp/B002KMTB1U?ref=ppx_pop_mob_ap_share

She can shower in the tub.,Hi thank you for the link! She’s always had help with her bowel care and gets someone in everyday to help, I don’t know if it could be because she’s older (late 40’s / early 50’s) or because she is ‘larger’ although she does weigh less then me! :) unfortunately the shower barely reaches the bath tub and she would need to lean to reach which in my head she would fall off if she had a chair and it would be very dangerous because the bathroom hasn’t got much space for her chair to move freely the shower itself would be a no go because of how small and the shape of itAunt with T8,Hmmm...=\Posted Question, Comment, Reply
My story / advice needed,Well how are your erections? You’ll probably need  viagra or another enhancer. Roman.com is pretty quick and easy but not very cheap, so I now use pills from India for a 10th of the price,I sometimes get pretty good reflex erections but I'll check those out. Thanks!My story / advice needed,T-10 complete here. I have to use sildenafil and plenty of lubes to maintain an erection for penetrative sex. Check out the intimate rider. My wife and I got one a couple years post sci but we dont use it all that much because I've gotten to be quite the cunning linguist and she prefers that now. Also no setup of equipment for oral!,I am planning on buying a sex wedge. Do you have any experience with those?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Accessible home,I’m currently looking for a house to buy, and it’s so damn hard to find anything that would work. I pretty much automatically rule out any split-level homes or something with a second story. There’s a good number of ramblers with basements, but it’s sometimes a question of whether or not the bathrooms and some of the doorways are wide enough. Aside from making sure doors are wide enough, I don’t really need any special modifications aside from a way to get downstairs into a basement. I’m very independent outside of that. 

But I need space. I don’t really want anything under 2500 square feet. I have a wife and daughter and we plan on having at least one more kid. I’d also like an attached garage so I don’t have to deal with snow in the morning when getting the kid out to the car and into their car seat in the winter. And a decent-sized garage at that as I also do some woodwork. 

If I could walk I could find houses that meet these specifications all day every day for a decent price. Since I can’t walk, the majority of houses get ruled out pretty quickly.

I’d love to have a custom home built, but the housing market here is ridiculously expensive for the area, and so are the lots. I’m looking to spend $300,000 at most. Unfortunately that doesn’t get you much I’m this area.

I’d love to hear what other people have done when getting into owning a home.,I hear ya.  I do currently live in an accessible "enough" home. I live alone, and I'm largely independent. It suits me just fine and I don't have any issues on the regular. But I'm thinking in the future when things will get harder (because our bodies don't get better with age, that's for sure...) I'm looking towards the nice to have in my future. Accessible kitchen so cooking is easier. A larger bathroom so I don't scuff everything up and have an easier time getting in and out. Just more space in general to move around so I'm not constantly bumping into shit.  But all these things aren't usually custom in homes, and renovating is so restrictively expensive. It's far cheaper just to build from scratch, I am told. I just don't know what that price tag is.Accessible home,It's just my husband and I (and our pets) so we didn't need anything huge. We did, however, need something quick because we were living in a 3 story townhouse when he was injured. After striking out with existing houses on the market, I found a new-construction neighborhood that allowed modifications to their floorplans. The houses are pretty cookie-cutter, but it suited our needs.

Some things, like moving doorways or light switches, were free. Others, like concrete ramps and wider doors, were extra. The faux wood vinyl flooring with zero thresholds required the upgraded package but that was fine because I like the cabinets and faucets better anyway.

It's not the way we wanted to buy our first house, and probably not what we would have chosen if we'd had more time and/or money, but it works and we're mostly happy with it.

Edit: The biggest problem was just waiting on it to be built. The frame was up when we signed the contract, but they had to modify it to make the changes we requested. We spent a couple months in a hotel after he was released from rehab.

Edit 2: There is one room my husband can't get into at the moment - the guest bath. It was simply impossible without making MAJOR changes to wall placements, which couldn't happen since the frame was already up. But the master bath is accessible.,Thank you for this!Accessible home,https://www.newmobility.com/2019/07/hacking-a-home/

Kind of an interesting way to go about it on a small budget. Probably depends on your areas zoning and codes.Accessible home,My family remodeled a home for my brother after his accident. That will be 7 years ago in August. He’s now C5/C6 incomplete quad.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
In 201) I became quadriplegic and lost the will to live. Now I’m on YouTube sharing my story. Here my third video, on how Queen B (Beyoncé) saved my life. Thanks for following along!,You are the best thing ever! I have a Beyoncé too. It’s not Beyoncé (but god yes I GET IT she is amaaaazinnng). The power of music to get us all through the shit we have in life really defies explanation, doesn’t it? The duo that has powered me through my shit is not a pair that’s mainstream but damn I can’t describe to anyone how much they mean to me and how fiercely protective I feel over them. I feel that music to my core and can remember specific instances when their songs have saved me. 

Anyway, I wonder from watching this, what Queen B would think about you. I bet she would be in awe of your strength, your perseverance, your beauty. We are all working it in our own way, aren’t we?

I sure hope she sees this one day, not for you, but for her.,Aww you’re so sweet. So who are your Beyoncés??
Agreed, music is incredible. It has monumentally shaped me in my life and continues to be my antidepressant! No matter what life throws at you, there is music that can help. I think that’s beautiful!In 201) I became quadriplegic and lost the will to live. Now I’m on YouTube sharing my story. Here my third video, on how Queen B (Beyoncé) saved my life. Thanks for following along!,Stay strong :)In 201) I became quadriplegic and lost the will to live. Now I’m on YouTube sharing my story. Here my third video, on how Queen B (Beyoncé) saved my life. Thanks for following along!,Awesome! I became a quadriplegic in 97! I've been posting/streaming on myself gaming and chatting with people on YouTube for a few years. I've been recently thinking about doing more videos about my injury and how it affected my life over the last 23 years. I definitely think more people with disabilities should share their stories on any platform they can. The more exposure we get the more acceptance we get. It'll break down the stereotypes and tropes  of what a disabled person is. I won't post a link here I don't want to take away from what you're doing. Rock on!!,Yes I agree! It wasn’t long ago that I had no idea what a paralyzed person went through. We have to normalize our existence to those that don’t understand so humanity can be more accepting and understanding (and grateful they can walk!). There’s currently so many stigmas that have not helped me since my injury. 

You are more than welcome to share your links here, the more the merrier!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Retaining a lot of fluid in legs,My physiatrist said that this happens often to people with spinal cord issues. She thought that for me it was due to that and compounded by having severe spasticity, because the tightness can affect blood flow and fluid drainage. 

I have compression stockings prescribed, and they help quite a bit. You can get them OTC as well. I’ve found that the ones rated 30-40 mmhg are most effective. Put them on in the morning while your legs are still horizontal and level with the rest of your body, for the best effect.,thanks for the reply do you wear them all day???Retaining a lot of fluid in legs,Buy a pair of [JUZOs](http://www.juzousa.com/Products/Stockings-for-Circulation)Retaining a lot of fluid in legs,The compression stocking are a must but you can also raise the foot of your bed an inch higher than the head or get some pillows to elevate your feet every night. I also have a recliner that I use every day so I can put my feet up.Retaining a lot of fluid in legs,A little update fro everyone, I went out and bought a pair of 20-30 (they were out of 30-40). However holy shit was it hard to get on, I ripped one already, then  decided to read the little card. They still are ok for now, it was minor. I appreciate  everyone's feedback, and I have a great respect for everyone here.Retaining a lot of fluid in legs,I wish I could get a pair on !

Getting your legs above your heart for 15 minutes is beneficial

MY left legs is too far gone.

When swelling gets up to your knee , then other problems occur.Retaining a lot of fluid in legs,I had the same problem with swelling,although I have a much more severe injury. Compression stockings greatly improved my swelling. It was such a simple fix (no meds required), and yes, wear them all day or at least when you're up moving around. Hope your swelling goes down!

I get mine from [https://www.ameswalker.com/](https://www.ameswalker.com/)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
A friend of mine suffered a spinal cord injury. So we built a voice-enabled rehab assistant to manage carers and rehab from where it matters most - at home. Let me know if you're interested!,Hey everyone! I've been part of this group supporting a friend with an SCI adjust to life at home (C5 - complete). Based out of Sydney, Australia.

I've also committed my life to designing accessible tools that help ease the transition from rehab to home and society and help people with spinal cord injury better manage and understand their health, care, and rehab.

We've been using Maslow to remotely connect people with their carers during COVID lockdown, so that they can access rehab programs without leaving the home.

If you're a carer, therapist, family member, or someone with an SCI and interested in using Maslow let me know!  


You can also find out more at http://maslow.io

Much love to everyone - this group has been pivotal in helping me and my friend adjust to home life.,Does this work or is useful only for someone in Australia.. Kindly confirm.. I find this very useful for someone with Sci especially in these trying timesA friend of mine suffered a spinal cord injury. So we built a voice-enabled rehab assistant to manage carers and rehab from where it matters most - at home. Let me know if you're interested!,What a fantastic friend 💗A friend of mine suffered a spinal cord injury. So we built a voice-enabled rehab assistant to manage carers and rehab from where it matters most - at home. Let me know if you're interested!,Could you please put in more details about Maslow, how secure it is for us to login, I'm from India.,Hey Sree

Logins are managed through cognito (a secure AWS service). Only therapists and careres you give permission to can access your dataPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Vehicle adaption,I'm a L1 para and after my accident I didn't drive for six months. Just in the last two weeks I've started driving with hand controls that I installed onto my vehicle pretty easily. It didn't require any changes to the vehicle itself, and the controls were pretty affordable. However, this is what worked for me because my injury level was rather low, and it might not work for you. I'll link the one I bought and there are various YouTube videos of them in use. I hope you can find an affordable solution! Best of luck to you!

https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07RHSWDT9/Vehicle adaption,T2-t3, I got a settlement and vehicles every 5 years was part of it.,Oh wow. That has to make circumstances a bit easier. this injury comes with plenty of struggles inherently so I'm always glad to see someone be able to take a positive and buffer it to a silver lining. For lack of a better term. Unfortunately I was the driver and hurt myself, ha.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Help with assistive technology,What is his injury, what is preventing him from working?,He is paralyzed from the neck down. He uses a electric wheelchair that he controls through his neck and i believe there is some part that he controls through blinking.Help with assistive technology,I use the Tobii PCEye Plus with Windows Control 2 which allows me to do office work. I can use it with a switch/button which is much more effective than the "gaze" method which requires the user to keep the eyes on the target for a while. With a button everything is much faster and precise. If he cannot move his hands he might be able to use a bite- or puff-style switch. 

The Dragon Dictation software allows speech-to-text. It does require quite a lot of discipline and practice, but can be quite effective.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Hey guys! In this video I show you all that a c6 quadriplegic has the ability to drive a car with hand controls! Driving is a huge source of independence and is such a wonderful feeling! What do you guys drive?! Anyone else into modding cars at all?,You left out the most important part, the actual transfer and getting the chair in after.,Will be in one of my upcoming videos! It would have been too long to explain both in depth!Hey guys! In this video I show you all that a c6 quadriplegic has the ability to drive a car with hand controls! Driving is a huge source of independence and is such a wonderful feeling! What do you guys drive?! Anyone else into modding cars at all?,
Well done. The ability to drive is so important, able bodied people don't understand.,Agreed! Probably the best thing I’ve re learned post injury!Hey guys! In this video I show you all that a c6 quadriplegic has the ability to drive a car with hand controls! Driving is a huge source of independence and is such a wonderful feeling! What do you guys drive?! Anyone else into modding cars at all?,This was an enjoyable video! Thank you!

I never thought about a quad’s inability to move the shifter, and I loved your solution. 

Where do you get a tri spinner? That looks really comfortable. I hate the little knob, it hurts my hands.Hey guys! In this video I show you all that a c6 quadriplegic has the ability to drive a car with hand controls! Driving is a huge source of independence and is such a wonderful feeling! What do you guys drive?! Anyone else into modding cars at all?,How do you load the chair?,I’ll be posting a video about that in a few weeks! It would have been too long to have everything in one video and still be able to explain it properly! I use quad release axels and break my chair down.Hey guys! In this video I show you all that a c6 quadriplegic has the ability to drive a car with hand controls! Driving is a huge source of independence and is such a wonderful feeling! What do you guys drive?! Anyone else into modding cars at all?,Hey mate! Awesome work. Agreed that being able to drive is really underrated!  
Building the strength and dexterity to be able to transfer in and out and adjust to the change in driving style is really valuable too. 

Were there any exercises you did to make sure you had the mobility to be able to transfer and drive?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Seat Cushion Help,I am a C6, but I have sensation all throughout my body. I live in Canada so funding is very much different I’m sure. But getting custom seating from ride designs changed everything. I can sit all day comfortably. Check them out. My cushion and back rest are custom moulded and  I would never go back. https://www.ridedesigns.com/Seat Cushion Help,A posture as well as comfort aid for me at least for my manual chair, has been a soft u-shaped neck pillow, like the ones you see on airplanes. I put it at the back of my chair, helps my lower back as well as my tailbone/glutes,Ingenious!! I'll try it. Thanks so much!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Employer healthcare is United, so no catheters...,I used cure catheters from allegro medical. Was about 300 a month.,For how many?Employer healthcare is United, so no catheters...,You could try working with your company and see if they can compensate you for the expense. If it was covered by your previous insurance you could try to make an argument for an increase in compensation to make up for your out of pocket cost increase. 

My company is switching to United next year and I'm going to try this tactic if catheters aren't covered.Employer healthcare is United, so no catheters...,I reuse catheters without any issues. I rinse them before and after each use and I can get weeks out of them.,You really shouldn't be doing that, its super risky.Employer healthcare is United, so no catheters...,Why not use the marketplace? I have found that many times the price is not that different when purchasing directly. Insurance adds unnecessary costs. You just need your doctor's prescription. Let me know if you need more information. Like this is something even I went through,I meant I can’t buy a government marketplace plan as having an employer offered one disqualifies you. With my current insurance I haven’t paid for a catheter in years.Employer healthcare is United, so no catheters...,[deleted],The specific plan probably doesn’t cover it.,Some United plans do some don't. It's super stupidEmployer healthcare is United, so no catheters...,And if it says it doesn’t you can send in paperwork to fill a room they won’t cover it. The fact your united plan does cover them is the more unusual situation I think.,Often times your physician can write an appeal to get them covered, even when the plan does not cover the needed items. In the long run, United doesn’t want pay for the negative health consequences of you not having the needed products. 

Work with your urologist, or other prescribing physician, they can often connect you with their vendor/rep to help get you the supplies at a reasonable cost. 

Finally, many companies are self funded for healthcare costs. A conversation with HR/benefits once you start is not an unusual thing, and often had good results.Employer healthcare is United, so no catheters...,For how many?Employer healthcare is United, so no catheters...,If I were an established employee instead of brand new and it weren’t for the corona belt tightening maybe... I have talked to HR about making it a consideration the next time the company contract comes up and if at that point they don’t I would definitely make it a point for increased compensation.Employer healthcare is United, so no catheters...,I use 180medical for mine and they are a good company. I have a massive surplus of catheters too, if you can't figures something out lmk I might be able to just give you some. I only use 1-3 a day so 1 box lasts me like 2 weeks and I get 10 boxes every month. [180medical](https://www.180medical.com/catheter-brands/?gclid=EAIaIQobChMI3ICZ_ZDL6QIVBKSzCh1mPAtLEAAYASAAEgL8WvD_BwE),I second 180medical. My urologist hooked me up with them back when I had insurance and it's really a no brainier company. They just send them out and you only get one phone call a month just to confirm that you need more.Employer healthcare is United, so no catheters...,Betty Mills. I use them for extra catheters and insertion trays for my brother. He’s C5/C6. Just need your doctor to send them a script. They are very very cheap out of pocket. His insurance will only pay for one a month. And he needs more then that sometimes. 

Www.bettymills.comPosted Question, Comment, Reply
How my life fell apart, part two-Electric Boogaloo. A response to a friend,Really sorry you seem so down. I’m in the middle of something right now, but will message you later. Hang in there and definitely take care of yourself. Stay off of that wound…,I'm trying my best. Take care of ur business and message me anytime!How my life fell apart, part two-Electric Boogaloo. A response to a friend,Can't rotate it. Rotate YOUPosted Question, Comment, Reply
How my life fell apart, part 2,https://youtu.be/SDou6DuYniQHow my life fell apart, part 2,What do you mean she stole it?,NothingPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Managing pressure sores on feet while walking,I wear thick merino wool socks, which helps a lot. I was lucky enough to have the orthotist be in the same facility as my outpatient therapy. He remolded where there was too much contact and added padding. Made a huge difference.,Oh yes, I've always worn Merino socks because my feet sweat and stink like crazy.  I got some Merino compression socks that have been working really well on my foot without the sores and I've been thinking about trying to use liner socks under them when I go for longer walks. 

If you don't mind me asking, what types of AFOs do you use and what's your presentation like? I've got some posterior carbon (the noodle by kenitic research) braces that have a decent amount of flex but I'm debating about trying to go for a more rigid design.Managing pressure sores on feet while walking,Check with your brace folks. They're really ingenious and can work with you on what you need and give you suggestions, as they've seen it all.. They can add extra padding, give you extra room in the molding, etc. They can also give you foam spacer "pringles" to place between your feet and braces/shoes. Their expertise and creativity when working with me on what I needed was really invaluable. 

I had to go to a specialty shoe store and get fitted for shoes... extra wide size to fit the braces 🙄 (Fitting checks are usually free.) I also wear thick socks when I'm gonna be walking a lot (or wear double thin socks if I haven't done laundry 🤣). 

Be sure to check your feet regularly, especially if you have any spotty or limited sensation.

I've used hypericum and calendula cream (Amazon) on blisters, sores, and the like. Good for healing.

Good luck!,This is all super helpful! I wasn't super impressed with my ortho but I'm working on getting new braces this year and will be going to a new ortho so I'll definitely talk to them about it. 

I've definately been checking my feet way more often lately and I'm going to be sure to keep up that habit in the future. Thanks!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Back muscles,Hi there. It’s impossible for anyone on this sub to diagnose you since we cannot see you and have not examined you. This is a sub for persons with spinal cord Injuries and their partners, allies, friends, etc. Try not to worry and make an appointment with your doctor. If you feel like it’s an emergency, go to your nearest emergency department.Back muscles,You in college?  Go to the clinic there.

Not in college?  Find a free clinic if you don't have insurance, and get it checked there.Back muscles,Sure sign of aggressive spine cancer, you will be dead in a month. Go to the emergency room immediately!,Source?,What the hell?! ManPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Looking for ideas to help motivate my c5 brother to do his PT at home during this hellstorm.,Honestly, what helped me out was understanding the consequences of not doing my PT- then I could make an informed decision about what I wanted to/could focus on. I don't think anyone outside could give me the motivation to do stuff, but what I do wish someone would do is just be empathetic to the fact everything's changed and instead of push me on doing stuff, actually talk to me about why I didn't want to do it and what I felt.

My C5/6 was also last August and my major barrier with motivation was and is always psychological and what has helped me out is A) understanding what happens if I don't do PT and b) someone actually having a conversation with me about what I feel about my injury, because just getting that emotion out can allow for much clearer thinking after.,This is spot on and why I don’t wanna be pushy. I think on a scientific level he knows what happens if he doesn’t keep up on it, but it hasn’t HIT home that he’s shooting himself in the foot (no pun intended) by not doing it. I’ve been gently suggesting him finding someone to talk to but he’s pretty resistant to that thanks to our upbringing being very SUCK IT UP. I’ve been bringing my kid by to hang out and play catch the stuffed animal which at least helps a little both mentally and physically. He’s one of my best friends and I just wanna help the best I can.Looking for ideas to help motivate my c5 brother to do his PT at home during this hellstorm.,I’m c7 and haven’t been to PT in two mo this, and have been too depressed to try at home. Abut I’m starting to realize I’m kicking myself in the head for not doing itLooking for ideas to help motivate my c5 brother to do his PT at home during this hellstorm.,Thanks so much, I’m really trying to help but am basically clueless about what to do. I’m learning as much as I can about his specific injury but I really haven’t talked to him about that so I’m really grateful for the suggestion.Looking for ideas to help motivate my c5 brother to do his PT at home during this hellstorm.,Hey mate. There's a team out of Sydney called Maslow that focus on making in-home rehab fun and accessible for people with a spinal cord injury. Shoot me a pm! I'd recommend getting in touch with them,Http://maslow.io is their websiteLooking for ideas to help motivate my c5 brother to do his PT at home during this hellstorm.,Invest in equipment to use at home that doesn't require much heavy assistance. Rather than me explaining, check out my videos and you will see some of the stuff he can use.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Survey for Women with SCI,I'll distribute to some folks I know who meet the inclusion criteria.

&#x200B;

Edit: I imagine you're aware of this, but researchers at University of Alabama Birmingham and ICORD Conglomerate (main facility at University British Columbia) also specialize in women's health in SCI. They might be able to help with distribution.,Thanks so much for your help. I really appreciate it. I have contacted them, but I will do more in depth research on their work and how we could collaborate. Thanks again!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Catheter Changes...,That's no fun mate. I'm sorry I can be much help only to say  that hopefully it will become painless in the future. Mine are fine so i have my fingers crossed for you.,I kind of hope to just lose all feeling i have there eventually lol. I mean its not helping at all to feel anything there.Catheter Changes...,[deleted],No my urethra was destroyed during my accident, I was run over by a pickup truck and it distracted my urethra and took away all feeling in that region and parts of my legs. I don't have enough urethra left to reconstruct... they tried twice.Catheter Changes...,All these surveys kinda get old personally. They never seen to bring about change only serve to remind the cripples to stay in their lane,I don't understand what you mean?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Spinal Cord Stimulator for Chronic Pain?,I’m a postdoc researching epidural spinal cord stimulation in persons with SCI (also in SCI animal models). You didn’t ask for it, but if you want information in that perspective, I’d be glad to give it!,Thank you for your response!

My pain doc mentioned a possibility of an epidural shot in my spine to reduce possible swelling that would relieve pressure on nerves and relieve pain. It didn't sound like that would work for my pain, since the location is so specific, doesn't move, and doesn't change on position or activity level. But is that the treatment you meant? I would love to hear your thoughts.,I would definitely like to hear more about it, both for pain reduction and possible rebuilding of pathways. I’m currently maxed out on pain meds and I’m still in excruciating nerve pain so any information would be helpfulSpinal Cord Stimulator for Chronic Pain?,I’d like to hear about this too, I’m barely functioning and am maxed out on meds.Spinal Cord Stimulator for Chronic Pain?,I got a Boston Scientific SCS for chronic pain implemented 2 years ago and it literally changed my life. I would say I get 80% pain reduction. Happy to answer further questions!,That's awesome! Thank you for the response! 

What does 80% pain reduction look like? You still get pain but it's less intense? Less frequent? Is it bearable?Spinal Cord Stimulator for Chronic Pain?,I got it literally 4 days ago. It’s has decreased my spasms by about 80%, and some nerve pain. It’s hard to say how much because the spasms and that pain were almost blocking a lot of nerve pain so with the spasms gone the nerve pain is worse than before the shot but better than before I started getting spasms of that makes sense. Obviously no idea how long it will last but I’m not sure if it’s the same thing as an epidural shot.,Thank you for that info and all your help! I look forward to giving it a shot.Spinal Cord Stimulator for Chronic Pain?,Very welcome. In an odd way it’s good to hear from others what they’re doing for pain because a lot of the people with SCIs that I know don’t deal with much or it’s totally controlled with meds..Spinal Cord Stimulator for Chronic Pain?,I'm an L1 incomplete para too!! 4 years post-injury. 

Weirdly enough, the thing that helped my nerve pain the most was calcium. Apparently, nerves (and muscles) desperately need calcium in order to function properly. If I regularly take calcium supplements, my nerve pain is diminished by 95%.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Mother has recently became a paraplegic, need advice/help.,Get her a personal care assistant for at least the first 4 months. I am 55 , a T8 and am totally self sufficient. Your mom can get there but will need some help and rehab is too short these days to learn everything. You or your dad shouldn't be her caregiver if at all possible. 


I had insurance paid for a couple months, then I paid another month out of pocket. after that I was able to do everything myself. As a para she would only need a couple hours three times a week. I paid the PCA 20 bucks an hour so it was 120 a week and to be blunt, that is a bargain to not have to help your mom go to the bathroom ( Google bowel program if you want details),I think she will be fairly self-sufficient when she returns home (Obviously home remodeling is on the checklist). But I think I’m worried about the fact that I will become someone that is expected to help and once i’m expected and don’t deliver then there will be a sense of resentment.

There’s just a wave of things going through my mind when she gets home. I haven’t seen her since the start of February due to COVID, so I just really don’t know what to expect. I know she wants me to come spend time initially but I guess I’m trying to figure out how to create boundaries in a healthy way.

P.s. I’ve heard all about the bowel programs lmaoooMother has recently became a paraplegic, need advice/help.,Depending on where you live see what support agencies/trusts/associations and governmental assistance are available for that particular diagnosis based on their injury level (s), not just on a name. Be pushy if necessary and good luck.Mother has recently became a paraplegic, need advice/help.,I am the caretaker for my husband who uses a wheelchair.  It was helpful to get remote controlled items, such as lights, fans, game consoles, etc., and wheeled tables, trays, and carts, so she can control her environment from where she is as much as possible.  It's extremely hard to lose so much control of your life, in every way, so always be patient with her.   She might get extra controlling about having things done a certain way, just go with it.  I'm sure her doctors will give you all a lot of instructions, and DEFINITELY get home health care (hopefully insurance will cover it).  One thing to be to make a top priority is preventing pressure sores - those can wreak havoc and cause all kinds of problems and pain.  Please make sure you and your stepdad and all her caretakers take this very seriously and make it a priority to reposition her continiously.,I agree that it’s difficult to endure as we’ve already experienced it firsthand as a family and I can’t even begin to imagine how she feels. The accommodations are in place for her to be in a safe environment with care. It’s more of the mental aspect/connection of the issue. Obviously I care for my mom and I want only the best for her, but I guess I’m trying to figure out how to create a healthy boundary for the given situation. 

I am 21 so I haven’t been able to have too many difficult conversations like that, especially with how traumatic the situation is...Mother has recently became a paraplegic, need advice/help.,I am the partner of someone who is tetraplegic. Full transparency, Covid-19 has made things difficult. It's been difficult to find caregivers, some caregivers have reduced hours for their own health/personal reasons and others are stretched thin making up for coverage. My partner moved out of his house and in with his mom because his roommates were unable to social distance. His house and my house currently have a social distancing and grocery shopping closed-loop system, i.e., we don't see other people without masks ever, and will take turns buying groceries for each other to reduce everyone's public exposure. I help my partner every weekend, but he's lucky to have his mom for most of the support. I would coordinate with your stepdad to see if you can explicitly develop a secure/safe support system for the indefinite future of the pandemic.

Further, my city has a couple of mutual aid groups that also offer assistance with groceries, I would do some research and see if there's a mutual aid support group in your area if needed.Mother has recently became a paraplegic, need advice/help.,It can be hard to get good responses from spinal injury people because every injury is very unique and every person is very unique. That said most of the responses below are fantastic. I'm T10 so not quite the same but it just takes time to figure things out. Google her injury level + anything you want to know and you'll find great videos tips and tricks. Better yet get her doing this. Make sure she understands how important it is to work out the parts she still has control over. Every little bit of muscle and every little extra bit of weight counts when it come to mobility, transfers all that stuff. Lastly, life is going to be pretty shit for a while, do what you can to listen sympathetically and encourage her, if you don't feel like you can help enough with that there is nothing wrong with finding someone who can. Sounds like she has a good son. Good luck.Mother has recently became a paraplegic, need advice/help.,Everyone here has got the therapy, recovery as best as they can, so my first advice is to make her diet strict. Even if she hates it. I’m sure she hates the daily activities more. 

I packed on 70lbs since rehab and it affects everything. Transfers, showers, pain, bowel movements, getting dressed, etc...

She’s lost so much muscle and SCI makes bowel transit slower. You hold on to every calorie you eat. I’ve dropped 20-30 lbs and life has gotten easier to where I’m determined to be as lean as I can be. However,  I wish I could go back to the start and just not put it on. 1500 cal daily is just fine. High protein for skin protection and low carbs to avoid insulin resistance. 

So sorry this happened to your mom. It ruins lives and spirits. It’s gonna be a hard grind to get through the first few years, but you guys can do it. And there is light at the end of this tunnel. All my best and love from CaliforniaMother has recently became a paraplegic, need advice/help.,I had kind of a similar challenge but in the opposite direction, if that makes sense. I'm (51M) the dad of a teenage girl with a T9 complete SCI. Because of the nature and complexity of her injury, she was a long time in ICU/CCC/inpatient rehab (the better part of 9 months altogether) so we had the advantage - if it can be called that - of all the inpatient services in terms of social and psych as well as the PT/OT staff. They really helped to set us up for what to expect on transition to home.

My OH has some long-standing issues with chronic lower back pain, so a lot of the physical assistance fell to me, when it comes to transfers etc. Add the natural shyness and body-consciousness of an adolescent girl to the physical weakness and psychological trauma of SCI rehab, and that made for some pretty awkward dad/daughter conversations... things you really don't ever expect to be doing, and conversations you don't ever expect to be having, with your adolescent kid are probably pretty much in the same category as things you don't expect to be discussing with your mother!

Thankfully, in my case, my daughter's awesome determination to be self-sufficient, the gains in her physical upper-body strength, and her transition through puberty, all combined to give both of us a very easy way out of the situation! I'm very grateful that she didn't go down the "learned dependence" route, which would have been easy for her to do, and by all accounts would also have been easy for me to facilitate/enable without realizing.

For your situation, I think that last point is probably the key to successful boundary-setting. Try hard not to build an expectation that you'll do stuff for your mother just because you're there and it's easier. Work with your stepdad, and whatever outside help you have available, to impress upon your mother just how important it is for her to maintain and assert her independence. Boundaries are, ultimately, as important to her as they are to you, so make sure you have those conversations early and often!

Good luck. There's absolutely no escaping that fact that she - and you - face a long and difficult road ahead. Try not to be overwhelmed by the size of the task. Take the time to look back, frequently, and celebrate the milestones in rehab: that may help her motivate herself for the next one.,This is the best response so far to my question!! Thank you so much for your extremely detailed comment and insight into your own personal situation. 

It truly is something that comes unexpectedly and is completely foreign to a majority of people. To say the least, I’ve been utterly lost with how to approach the situation. You’ve shed some great insight and advice for how this journey will start/go.

Again, thank you stranger.Mother has recently became a paraplegic, need advice/help.,find a good injury attorney , your in house care costs are gonna go thru the roofMother has recently became a paraplegic, need advice/help.,If she is currently in rehab, then she likely has a psychologist on her team. Your question is a great question, and unfortunately one that often doesn’t get asked until after it becomes a problem.  I wonder if you could reach out to her team psychologist? A good one will work with the family as well.Mother has recently became a paraplegic, need advice/help.,I'd get in touch with a local SCI charity, they may be able to offer you some support to help you deal with what's going on as well as help your mother gain her independence.Mother has recently became a paraplegic, need advice/help.,Long road ahead. 5 years here. Make sure u research the fuck out of her first wheelchair. And u don't have to spend money on expensive adaptive controls for the car. I made my own safely and they swap out to any car quickly. Message me for any questions. Good luck. Watch out for pressure ULCERS. and power chair lazyness. It will kill u quickPosted Question, Comment, Reply
On one of my last posts I was asked how I film and wheel at the same time so here is a video about my wheelchair tripod! Hopefully this helps!,Just got one of these, its  pretty handy and was $120 ish   [https://gettecla.com/products/tecla-phone-mount](https://gettecla.com/products/tecla-phone-mount),Nice! Thanks for sharing!On one of my last posts I was asked how I film and wheel at the same time so here is a video about my wheelchair tripod! Hopefully this helps!,Wheelchair camera mount: picture looks great. 

No lapel mic: camera at a distance sounds bleh. Camera on the mount is louder but vibration and wind compete with your voice.,Thank you! I am upgrading to a GoPro with a mic so hopefully that helps with my ongoing audio issues!On one of my last posts I was asked how I film and wheel at the same time so here is a video about my wheelchair tripod! Hopefully this helps!,Thanks for the video! I'll have to make one for myself now :)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I sustained a spinal cord injury during an LSD trip 4+ years ago and am here to share my story and what I’ve learned.,Hi Reddit. It’s been awhile since I’ve posted. 4 years ago I sustained a spinal cord injury during an LSD trip. My whole life fell apart and now I’m living in a nursing home at 34 years old. I have learned a lot from all I have been through and wanted to share my story, so here’s the first part!,I enjoyed hearing your story, thanks for postingI sustained a spinal cord injury during an LSD trip 4+ years ago and am here to share my story and what I’ve learned.,Ya I feel Like I say that once a day if not more LOL. I tell people all the time that breaking my neck and healing from that was the easiest part of this injury, the hard part starts when you leave rehab and have to live it day in and day out knowing that there’s no end in sight. Not gonna lie I am totally jealous that you have use of your hands LOL I found myself just watching your hand in the video, seeing how you were able to open and close your fingers even though I know it’s partial and it looks like only three fingers but still I feel like if I could get even to that point it would change my life immensely the things we take for granted 🤷🏻‍♂️. I find myself watching people move and walk almost in a voyeuristic way wishing I had it. I love living in New England, I’m about 35 minutes outside the city of Boston in a quiet little suburb town so it’s the best of both worlds. What part of Florida are you in?,Yeah I often say that the not being able to walk part is the least of my problems. I get being envious of my hands if yours aren’t as dexterous, I was thinking how strange it is that my life has led me to a place where I am jealous of paraplegics! At the same time I’m very grateful for what I do have and there isn’t a day that goes by that I don’t think of those with worse injuries than mine, especially those with locked in syndrome, how insane! 
People’s working bodies seem like incredible feats of art and engineering to me now. My own body does too I guess but WORKING BODIES? I mean, wow! Standing upright?! Supporting that heavy head?! TEN fingers?!?
A CLITORIS ARE YOU KIDDING ME?I sustained a spinal cord injury during an LSD trip 4+ years ago and am here to share my story and what I’ve learned.,[deleted],Thanks for your support then and now!
Yeah that movie came out right after I was injured and it was super awkward to watch because my life was all bladder and bowel issues and struggling to get through the day, NOT a romance. But yeah I was applying for assisted suicide at the same place as the character in that movie.I sustained a spinal cord injury during an LSD trip 4+ years ago and am here to share my story and what I’ve learned.,Hey enjoyed listening to your video, C4-5 quad here living in Boston area going on 12 years since my accident. I dived into a pool and never came up, drowned and then resuscitated spent two months on a ventilator six months total in the hospital. I can totally relate to everything that you mentioned in the video.. and I feel like I go in cycles where I’ll be good for a year-18 months and then I start to struggle again and can’t find the reason or will to want to go on and that will last for six months or a year and then I end up back on an upswing. I don’t know that that struggle ever really goes away. I’m lucky enough to be able to have a family that has been incredibly supportive and able to renovate part of the house to make room for me to live with the changes needed to make it accessible for myself. If you’d be interested in talking more about quadlife, life in general, being someone that each of us could reach out to in times of struggle or vice versa let me know. I hope you’re staying healthy during this craziness and in general 😀… look forward to hearing back from you,Thanks so much for listening! I hear you with the ups and downs. Sometimes I’m just like WHY IS THIS SO HARD then I remember people normally can move and control their bodies. It’s a very tough hand to be dealt, I have immense love for you having suffered the same fate. Man I love Boston too! It’s the last place I had traveled before the trip to India that broke my neck.I sustained a spinal cord injury during an LSD trip 4+ years ago and am here to share my story and what I’ve learned.,Just finished the video, thank you so much for sharing your story. I just want to say I’m really proud of you and your strength for overcoming such a big difficulty in your life.

I was 16 when I got injured, am 18 now. L3-L5 incomplete, can walk but there’s still severe nerve damage so there’s a limp. Had 3 surgeries on my back and pelvis, totally up to 24 hours of surgeries. In other words, a shitty accident lol. Sometimes I hate the way I am because I can’t do the same things as my peers. Like drinking alcohol or wearing heels or going to a party. But at the same time, I’m grateful that I’m alive and is probably stronger than 90% of the people I’m surrounded with.

I 100% agree with you in terms of having that inner strength. I think the one thing that saved me was my mindset. I find the fact that you’re sharing your story to be extremely courageous. I still have trouble telling it as I’m afraid of how people will look at me. Thanks for sharing, you’ve inspired me :) May God bless you!,Thanks so much for listening and I’m sending you lots of love. Your voice and story are wanted! I once read that God wrote our stories so it’s silly not to share them. It’s not easy putting yourself out there, but it’s worth it! Best of luck!,Hi, howd u get injured?I sustained a spinal cord injury during an LSD trip 4+ years ago and am here to share my story and what I’ve learned.,Hi, thank you for sharing your story. I really would like to connect and have a chat! I love those deep conversations. Monday it's my 19 anniversary. I'm 38 and I was 19 when out of the blue I became quad. I ended up writing a book to share what I've been through in the hope of helping others going through similar situations. Sharing is caring ❤

This is my book https://www.amazon.com/my-chair-yours-Juliana-Carvalho-ebook/dp/B083XMNJBZ

Please let me know If you are keen to chat! I'm from Brazil and live in NZ. But, I've been fighting immigration here for 7 years trying to get the residency. I'm facing deportation and my appeal is with the minister of immigration, my last avenue. Just sitting here amid the pandemic waiting for my fate. And trusting the universe knows what is best.,Good on you for writing a book, wow! I hope your living situation problems get lost.
Sharing is caring indeed. :) I’m up for a chat, dm me!I sustained a spinal cord injury during an LSD trip 4+ years ago and am here to share my story and what I’ve learned.,Thank you for posting.  I'm a friend of a quad, this video was great perspective for me. He has bouts of not wanting to talk to anyone, but I love him and I try to remind myself of what he's going through.,I can tell you that for a time after my injury, the only relationship dynamic I wanted was to know the darkest and most intimate parts of my friends lives. Yeah it’s a misery loves company thing maybe but mostly it was just that I felt soooooo exposed that I yearned to know someone else’s secrets. I felt like all my dirty laundry was spilled all over and it only made me feel alive to connect with someone on a very deep level. I still don’t have much capacity for small talk.I sustained a spinal cord injury during an LSD trip 4+ years ago and am here to share my story and what I’ve learned.,Definitely, I could totally accept life in the chair give me back those hands! usually in my darkest moments is when I’m most aware that I could be in a much worse situation whether it be zero movement or stuck on a vent or like you said the terror that must be locked in syndrome. And it’s crazy that unfortunately it takes losing the gift of a working body for us to appreciate The absolute amazing feat of nature that it really is. Everything about it taken separately it’s amazing what do you think all the systems and parts work together fluidly the way it does is astounding. LOL I too appreciate the clitoris, I try to make it known 😂. Have you had any significant health setbacks in your four years?I sustained a spinal cord injury during an LSD trip 4+ years ago and am here to share my story and what I’ve learned.,hey i've thought about you every couple of months for the past couple of years. we talked a bit back when you were condisdering euthanesia - I had different account back then. Happy you are doing better. God bless you.I sustained a spinal cord injury during an LSD trip 4+ years ago and am here to share my story and what I’ve learned.,Thanks for sharing... As someone who has also experienced both an SCI and LSD trips, I cant imagine what that woukd have felt like in the moment. Talk about confusion and fear...wow.
I also have gained a much more nuanced idea/belief about what you might call God compared to my formally traditionally informed Judeo-Christian idea of what that is ir might be.
Anyway... Alot to relate to, thanks again for sharing.I sustained a spinal cord injury during an LSD trip 4+ years ago and am here to share my story and what I’ve learned.,Thanks for sharing. T9 coming up on 6 years now, my own accident was caused by a bad mushroom trip.I sustained a spinal cord injury during an LSD trip 4+ years ago and am here to share my story and what I’ve learned.,Well, I'm glad I didn't start doing LSD until after my injury!! HAHA! How you've survived is a mystery to me. I've always believed that if there is a God they put me in a serious timeout.I sustained a spinal cord injury during an LSD trip 4+ years ago and am here to share my story and what I’ve learned.,Thanks for posting this.I sustained a spinal cord injury during an LSD trip 4+ years ago and am here to share my story and what I’ve learned.,I'm HITTING u back with a response vid. 20 mins biznitchPosted Question, Comment, Reply
How did you use your stimulus package? Here are some items i ordered including a show bench and a freewheel. Im so happy right now.,The fact that you even have to pay for this shit out of pocket is insane to me. I get everything I need for "free"(taxes) here in Sweden.,America is literally the worst, if you can’t tell. I pay 1100 a month for insurance and catheters.How did you use your stimulus package? Here are some items i ordered including a show bench and a freewheel. Im so happy right now.,Where do you live? you shouldn’t have to buy a chair for sure..... in fact all that should be covered by insurance even in this 3rd world country called the USA lol except maybe the wheel., This is for "freewheel" attachment not a wheelchair. Insurance does not pay for that.

I really needed to replace my shower bench asap so i couldn't wait for an organisation to help me.

Trust me i have family in central America and Mexico lol  u.s. is not a third world country. Never is and never will be thats a fact!!!

Btw i live in California,Medicare/Medicaid used to pay for padded shower chairs for me...not anymore.  Past five years or so I've had to pay out of pocket.  I think they'll only pay for the cheap, hard plastic ones, which my skin can't handle.How did you use your stimulus package? Here are some items i ordered including a show bench and a freewheel. Im so happy right now.,Private insurance in the US often wont cover any bathroom equipment at all.How did you use your stimulus package? Here are some items i ordered including a show bench and a freewheel. Im so happy right now.,Hey I use that shower bench, I love mine!,I know had some tacos a few nights ago im glad i have that cut-out if you know what i mean.How did you use your stimulus package? Here are some items i ordered including a show bench and a freewheel. Im so happy right now.,Wow your post was depressing. It made me realize I have been in a wheelchair so long that the price of freewheels has doubled since I bought mine.,Yeah my post was meant to stir up all types of feelings but im personally happy. I think its still worth it for me im turning 40 and been T11 since 1998 I live in a urban area never had enough money to buy any but my cannabis. Lol.How did you use your stimulus package? Here are some items i ordered including a show bench and a freewheel. Im so happy right now.,Didn't get one.,Sorry bro why not ? :( are you in the U.S ?How did you use your stimulus package? Here are some items i ordered including a show bench and a freewheel. Im so happy right now.,I have yet to get any stimulas moneyPosted Question, Comment, Reply
How Quarantined Are Y’all Staying?,Compromised lungs , so while I keep my distance I have gone to social gatherings where everyone does.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Recommendations for vehicles,What's your situation? I will personally be looking into getting the Subaru Crosstrek because it's built like a tank. Used to ride motorcycles, but now I am a member of this sub, hahaha!,I'm T10 complete and I drive a crosstrek, highly recommend from my side,T2-t3  incomplete,  I'm having my Harley modified.,Not asking for me, but for a friend who’s about to start driving again. 
But I have a Subaru and looooove it. Mine’s an Outback though. It has held up really well and I am not very easy on it. LOL. Crosstreks are nice looking cars.Recommendations for vehicles,C6 level... I have a van with a ramp and swivel driver seat. I wanted to save wear and tear on my shoulders by not having to break down the wheelchair getting in and out of the car.,What model van did you get, if you don’t mind my asking?Recommendations for vehicles,T5 I transfer into a drivers seat to drive with hand controls. I have a Mazda 5 with van style sliding doors. It works pretty well for me.Recommendations for vehicles,T9, I drive a normal minivan with hand controls from Amazon. The best thing about it is I can throw my chair in complete, not needing to break it down each time I get in or out. It was also 1/4 the price of anything with a ramp.  
The biggest downside is it takes a pretty aggressive transfer with the height of the driver's seat; I worry about the wear it causes on my shoulder long term. As a young guy with no kids, it was also an ego blow to be driving at first.Recommendations for vehicles,I’m a T4 paraplegic. I drive a Honda Element. They have suicide doors for the back seat. I take the wheels and cushion off my chair, fold the back rest down, and toss everything in the seat behind me. I previously had a Saturn Ion with suicide doors which sits a lot lower. The height was an issue when I first got the Element because I was used to resting my feet on the ground for balance as I disassembled my chair. I bought a $15 folding step stool so that I can still rest my feet on something and now it’s super simple to transfer in and out. Works like a charm. Love the vehicle.


https://imgur.com/a/fEnUDP0Recommendations for vehicles,Nissan Maxima.  I love that it has two seat setting buttons. I've got it set up so when I get out of the car I push one for the seat to go all the way back. And push the second one once I'm ready to drive. It's handy. I use Veigel (sp?) hand controls and they are wonderful.  It's a fun car to drive, as it has some good zip, and it's a sleek looking car.

The biggest issues I have, is that I've already got shoulder issues brewing, so sometimes breaking my chair down and throwing it in the passenger seat is a little difficult. Secondly, due to my chair either riding shotgun or in the backseat, taking multiple passengers is frustating. Also, hauling a wheelchair in and out of a vehicle destroys the interior. Exterior too. Lots of rips, dings and scratches all over my car from the chair.Recommendations for vehicles,L1 incomplete.  I am commenting to follow.  Looking at something fairly large with lumbar support.  Been looking at the XT5, but not decided.,Ooh fancy! Those are NICE!Recommendations for vehicles,T7. I have a toyota Corolla. I transfer in then I can dismantle the chair and get it in the car with me easily enough.


I like the car. Very cheap to maintain. Nice height to get in and out of.


Bear in mind any car that has a wheelchair near it is going to end up a bit battered 😆😆Recommendations for vehicles,Mini Cooper. It has big doors, the car is easy to transfer into and it has enough room to put your chair in the passenger seat. Plus it's fun to drive. Monarch hand controls fit well and are about 900 bucks. 

My second favorite is a Lincoln towncar, I bought a used one from a limo company. It's easy to get into and tons of roomRecommendations for vehicles,C6. Audi TT. It’s perfect for us!Recommendations for vehicles,I was a big hiking back packer. For me a Jeep Wrangler helped me find a part of my life I was missing. While not as convenient as the vans, it definitely helped my mental health tremendously.,Any tips on getting the top off? Or do you have someone else do that for you?Recommendations for vehicles,t8 and drive a freedom motor rear entry Toyota Sienna. No complaints.Recommendations for vehicles,t-10 incomplete and i drive a nissan sentra. i like the height because it’s pretty even with my chair and i have plenty of room to throw everything inside once i break my chair down.Recommendations for vehicles,I'm T-1 & drive a Honda Accord one of the few 2 door vehicles left. I also have a Van because my wife & I are both Para's so we use the van when going out together. The car love the quick pick up & speed but hate the trouble of putting the chair in. The Van is lousy for city driving & kind of tight for 2 wheelchairs lousy mileageRecommendations for vehicles,T12 incomplete here. I have 2 cars, one is a bmw e90 & the other is an e46 😂 I can easily put the wheels, arms, cushion in back seat & chair in passenger seat. When  with a friend they can just put the chair in the trunk so there’s still room for passengers. Plus you can do sick skids & I’m not talking about in your pants. My personal opinion suvs, trucks, all cars that are higher are way harder to get in and get the wheelchair in. I would stick with a low to the ground car.Recommendations for vehicles,Extra cab Dakota,  the doors open wider. I  use a platform lift to get in and had it lowered 3".Recommendations for vehicles,T4 complete, Toyota Tacoma TRD. I have a crane are that lowers my chair in the bed. No lift, manual transfer. It's not a transfer for the feint of heart, but I'm in fairly good shape and 6'5". I have never owned a truck and always wanted one. It's a little impractical, but it keeps me on my toes about transfers and staying in shape.Recommendations for vehicles,I’m T11 and drive a Mazda5. If you don’t mind driving essentially a mini mini-van, I highly recommend. The practicality made it a no brained for me. I bought a second one last year. I take the bucket seat out behind the driver’s seat and can get in/out without taking my chair apart, which saves me a lot of time. I pull my chair in backwards behind me and use a piece of wood to pull the sliding door shut. Good luckPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Where do you find SCI research/medical news?,Real medical stuff?

pubmed

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/


However, this is the hardcore publications stuff and quite a bit of what is listed there is not available for free., [https://sci-hub.tw/](https://sci-hub.tw/)  can get you around most paywalls.Where do you find SCI research/medical news?,I'm also curious. Every so often I'll use Google Scholar, type in 'spinal cord injury's and then sort by date. It works okay for me since I have a background in science but it takes some digging to find the exciting articles among the mundaneWhere do you find SCI research/medical news?,https://spinalcordresearchandadvocacy.wordpress.com/Where do you find SCI research/medical news?,http//www.clinicaltrials.govWhere do you find SCI research/medical news?,Late to the party, but also check out  [https://www.carecure.net/](https://www.carecure.net/)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Early stage start up looking to talk to SCI victims with incomplete injuries about their rehab experience and get feedback about what I'm building,Are you building a tool to help people do something, or something to actually make the healing process happen faster? I don't have an SCI but I work in inpatient rehab.,I'm making something to help healing happen faster through exercise actually - at least in theory!Early stage start up looking to talk to SCI victims with incomplete injuries about their rehab experience and get feedback about what I'm building,Yeah, I’m interested. I suffered C-1 to C-6 injuries as well as T-1 to T-7 injuries. All resulting in various fusions. I am still walking. Went through two years of rehab. Etc.,Hi! Thanks for your interest! I'll private message you soon :)Early stage start up looking to talk to SCI victims with incomplete injuries about their rehab experience and get feedback about what I'm building,I'm interested, I actually do some work that is based on using neural based exercises to help build strength and force neutral connections. I'd love to hear what you've got.,That's awesome! I'll PM you soon. Thanks :)Early stage start up looking to talk to SCI victims with incomplete injuries about their rehab experience and get feedback about what I'm building,Hi there,

I am a 1-year post-surgery t4-incomplete. I went through 1 month of inpatient rehab. Today, I'm able to walk with the help of an AFO. 

Feel free to pm,Thank you! I'll PM you soon!Early stage start up looking to talk to SCI victims with incomplete injuries about their rehab experience and get feedback about what I'm building,I’m a c7 incomplete. as of the 25th of this month it’ll be six months since my injury,Hi. Thanks for the reply. Hoping it's okay to PM you about this. Will reach out soon :)Early stage start up looking to talk to SCI victims with incomplete injuries about their rehab experience and get feedback about what I'm building,I am six years post injury, L3-L4 incomplete and my feet are still paralyzed but I walk using AFOs. I will help you out.,Hi! Thanks a lot. Going through the people who've responded one by one. Will reach out to you soon :)Early stage start up looking to talk to SCI victims with incomplete injuries about their rehab experience and get feedback about what I'm building,My husband is an incomplete L2 paraEarly stage start up looking to talk to SCI victims with incomplete injuries about their rehab experience and get feedback about what I'm building,Happy to chat !,Hi! Thanks a lot. Going through the people who've responded one by one. Will reach out to you soon :)Early stage start up looking to talk to SCI victims with incomplete injuries about their rehab experience and get feedback about what I'm building,Happy to help out, message me when you’re readyEarly stage start up looking to talk to SCI victims with incomplete injuries about their rehab experience and get feedback about what I'm building,I'm happy to help out too c6/7 incomplete. Had 6 months of rehab. Can I ask where are you located ?Early stage start up looking to talk to SCI victims with incomplete injuries about their rehab experience and get feedback about what I'm building,I'm newly injured 1 year t7 completePosted Question, Comment, Reply
Gave the freewheel attachment a try in today’s YouTube video! Anyone else use one? Didn’t work in grass as I hoped, but maybe that’s my fault?,I love the free wheel! It's great for rough terrain, bumpy/cracked sidewalks, and long pushes in general. It actually helps with grass a lot with me, but it seems I have a bit more triceps than you, so that could make a difference. I also feel like my casters lift a bit higher than yours, maybe it's a size difference in casters? Also, if you have a TiLite, you have to bolt your foot plate down first.,I have 4 inch casters, I’m gonna try and adjust the freewheel so it lifts my casters higher, I think that’ll help with the grass! It worked great everywhere else but the thick grass.Gave the freewheel attachment a try in today’s YouTube video! Anyone else use one? Didn’t work in grass as I hoped, but maybe that’s my fault?,I got one when I first got out of rehab, but I've only used it a few times.  I have a Mountain Trike and a Firefly that keep me pretty well covered.  The freewheel just didn't do what I wanted it to.,Those mountain trikes look sick!,You want to sell yours??Gave the freewheel attachment a try in today’s YouTube video! Anyone else use one? Didn’t work in grass as I hoped, but maybe that’s my fault?,Great video man.,Thanks! Really appreciate it!Gave the freewheel attachment a try in today’s YouTube video! Anyone else use one? Didn’t work in grass as I hoped, but maybe that’s my fault?,You should do a video or at least show us a picture of your camera setup on your chair there! :) I want to start getting into video work and that looks like a great idea!,I’ll work on getting a video up this week!Gave the freewheel attachment a try in today’s YouTube video! Anyone else use one? Didn’t work in grass as I hoped, but maybe that’s my fault?,Try an E-fix for offroad.Gave the freewheel attachment a try in today’s YouTube video! Anyone else use one? Didn’t work in grass as I hoped, but maybe that’s my fault?,The turning on it is rubbish and if going downhill and turn suddenly, barrel roll.. Which it always wants to do and need a lot of strength to put it back straight even with changed turning resistance. Amazed this hasn't been improved yet, if you're on a grass hill and try to turn from sitting still, will get forearm injury or be stuck. It is alright for off-road but the recline gives pressure marks on lower spine when going over bumps. Better than nothing I guess but could be re-imagined.Gave the freewheel attachment a try in today’s YouTube video! Anyone else use one? Didn’t work in grass as I hoped, but maybe that’s my fault?,I love my freewheel! According to Strava I hit 25mph coming down one of the carriage trails in the Moses Cone estate. :DPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Blurry vision,Are you on any new medication? A lot of antimuscarinic and anticholinergic medications (both related to spasms) cause blurred vision. I believe that to be the case for certain antibiotics as well, though it’s been a while since I’ve been on anything super heavy duty intravenously and cannot confirm from personal experience.,I am not on any new new meds. The blurred visioned has happened a few weeks after surgery.  I mean I was on antibiotics a few times for UTI. But like I said the blurred/double vision has happened a few weeks after surgery. Any thing else I can do? I need to be able to see,I’ve had blurred vision randomly and I take meds for spasms so this was interesting to know. I thought my eyesight was going all of a suddenBlurry vision,Was your vision normal before surgery? Did you wake up immediately after surgery with blurry vision? How long ago was your surgery? Has it gotten better, worse, stayed the same? 

In short, not sure. Glasses can help if the problem with the eyes is not with the optic nerve. You seem to suggest from your post that you woke up with decreased vision after your surgery which would imply some sort of perioperative event—ischemic, perhaps—that affected your vision. 

Also possible it’s something like a corneal abrasion which can happen if you’re on your stomach and your eyes aren’t protected well. Those heal pretty quickly though. 

Again, not sure because only an ophthalmologist can tell you for sure what the cause of blurry vision is. I’d go see one if you’re worried. They can look at different parts of your eye and diagnose problems and tell you what’s going on.,Yes I went and saw an ophthalmologist and waiting for my prescription glasses. About a few weeks after surgery I started noticing a difference. My vision was not even near as bad as it is now.. it’s bad now and I’m worried it’s due to spinal cord Injury from surgery. I cannot say docs name. I do f think due to legal reasons,> Glasses can help if the problem with the eyes is not with the optic nerve.

Vision issues can also arise if the nerves  controlling the muscles responsible for eye movement and pupil dilation are affected.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
How am I supposed to afford anything? How do you?,Get in touch with an OT and/or a social worker. Funding will heavily depend on where you live.How am I supposed to afford anything? How do you?,After my injury I was able to enroll in a state vocational rehab program which paid for my driving courses and hand controls. I know they are able to pay for more significant vehicle modifications like van conversions in order to help people return to work.

Since you have been working part time I'm not sure this will be at all helpful. But there may be other state programs which can help subsidized the cost. I would probably call a local company that preforms conversions and see what grants/state programs they've worked with in the past.,Same here. I live in KY and OT paid for all the conversions, ramp, hand controls, etc. I had to still buy the van, but luckily I had my brother cosign for me to make things easier.How am I supposed to afford anything? How do you?,Depending on what state you live in, there may be several grant programs that you could sign up for!How am I supposed to afford anything? How do you?,Agree with the other posters! Look into what your state vocational rehab can help with! It’s not easy and you have to fight for what you need but there are programs that offer help!How am I supposed to afford anything? How do you?,Same, I went back to the retail job I had before my injury which pays decent but I spend so much money on meds and supplies im broke as fuck. Vocational is going to pay for me to fill back to school but I'm about to lose my SSI so I'm not sure how im going to get everything paid for.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Did anyone else catch Elon musk on Joe Rogan’s podcast #1470?,I'll have to give this a listen, thanks for sharing!Did anyone else catch Elon musk on Joe Rogan’s podcast #1470?,I haven't had a chance to catch it yet but I am pretty regular on catching up on Joe Rogan's podcast. He has a lot of good guests on. You catch a lot of good information that you would not usually get from traditional media that is for sure.Did anyone else catch Elon musk on Joe Rogan’s podcast #1470?,[Here is the link to the details we all want.] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gqdo57uky4o) Sign me up. Before I know it I will be Robocop.,I’ve got a titanium rod in my right shin. So I’m already 25% of the way to having metal legs!!!Did anyone else catch Elon musk on Joe Rogan’s podcast #1470?,Yeah I saw it, super exciting to see what Elon is gonna doDid anyone else catch Elon musk on Joe Rogan’s podcast #1470?,I found it interesting. But I don’t know how it could apply to spinal cord injury. He mentioned how it has the potential to help fix people who have had strokes or Parkinson’s and other neurological things like that. But with spinal cord injury, the problem isn’t in the brain. The problem is that the brain can’t communicate with the body. So I don’t see how adding some kind of fixing computer chip to the brain would help when the message still can’t get past the injured part of our spinal cordPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Functional but fashionable alterations to pants to access leg bag as a quad?,There are companies that make wheelchair jeans/pants I intermittent cath so can't recommend whether one is better than another for leg bags specifically but every time I have ordered wheelchair jeans that has been an option. I just checked Zappos and they don't have the IZ Adaptive jeans I like in stock, which is too bad because the jeans are twice as expensive on the IZ adaptive website. Theu do make good (but expensive) wheelchair pants.Functional but fashionable alterations to pants to access leg bag as a quad?,Mine is tied below my knee and, trousers depending, I have to either swing one leg up and roll the leg up or pull the fabric above the knee. Neither are a graceful smooth operation :D

I suppose you could try make friends with a taylor and get a custom flap built in!Functional but fashionable alterations to pants to access leg bag as a quad?,Not exactly what you asked for, but my mom has a C4 injury and uses a night bag at all times (she has a suprapubic catheter) there’s no hiding that thing so we use bag/tube covers. I’ve ordered a couple off of Etsy and I really like the ones that TheConfidence makes (link below) they are very good quality and the tube cover has snaps that are convenient. I hope this helps even a little bit

[TheConfidence Etsy](https://www.etsy.com/listing/693054971/catheter-leg-bag-cover-tube-or-handles?ga_order=most_relevant&ga_search_type=all&ga_view_type=gallery&ga_search_query=catheter+leg+bag+cover&ref=sr_gallery-1-8&organic_search_click=1),There is a way to hide it. You can wrap the tube in electrical tape and figure out how to Velcro the piss bag (that is already in one of the covers) to the back of the foot rest. My cover for my piss bag is black, so it’s really hard to figure out what is in the bag and no one really knows it’s there. PM me with questions.Functional but fashionable alterations to pants to access leg bag as a quad?,23-year-old C5 here. I use a night catheter bag all day, every day. I strap the bag to the bottom of my chair behind where my legs rest and I wrap the tube in electrical tape. The tube looks like a wire and the piss bag lays in a black bag that someone sewed together for me. I empty my piss bag in the morning when I wake up and at night when I go to bed. That’s it. Feel free to PM me with any questions because I truly feel like I found the solution.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Journaling with C level spinal cord injury,C-6 level here
I recommend a good  noise-canceling mic if you’re using Dragon...I use speech to text on my iPhone and iPad a whole lot, works even better with AirPods,Was going to say. Speech to text is a really great way to write. It ain't writing in a journal but it's still an opportunity to put thought onto paper.,Thank you.Journaling with C level spinal cord injury,iPad Pro
AirPods Pro, a good microphone is a must

DragonDictate for the PC

There are also excellent accessibility options on iPhones and iPads such as a floating home buttonJournaling with C level spinal cord injury,[This](https://fd-stylus.com/product/caduceus/) stylus is flexible and can be wrapped around his hand to be in any position. This paired with an iPad and a decent mount should be a great typing method.,I ordered this! Thank you.Journaling with C level spinal cord injury,I'm a C-4 with no hand function. I've used a mouthstick the last 17 years. Put me through college just fine.Journaling with C level spinal cord injury,Unfortunately, dragon is probably the best solution. He is going to have to learn to adjust to talking instead of writing. I found that the way that I process information verbally is much different than how I used to write, so it just takes practice and due diligence. He’s got it!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Best Cushion For Pressure Sores?,Nothing beats roho quattro,☝️☝️☝️ this is what I would go with. I say that as a RN and someone with an SCI.Best Cushion For Pressure Sores?,Where is it? If it's on the coccyx a ride cushion can totally offload that. Otherwise roho probably is your best bet. If you have a wound vac you should be able to get insurance to pay for a cushion recommended by a physical therapist,Yeah right on the coccyx. That is a great idea, I haven't thought of the insurance thing. I'm definitely going to hit my max out of pocket so might as well get all I can out of that. Honestly I should see if I can work out a new wheelchair cause mine is beat and it will be 5 years past my accident in January. Thank you for the info!Best Cushion For Pressure Sores?,Definitely a Roho cushion. My brother is a quad and we use the roho for him. He had the same exact pressure sore in the same spot. It’s been 7 years now since his accident and 7 years of dealing with wounds. We have finally found a great routine that works and have just about gotten them all but healed up. He’s had 2 flap surgeries over the years. Good luck!,Thank you so much! It is the flap surgery that they have suggested. How long did he have to spend in the hospital for that?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Affordable portable travel commode,Are you driving around in a car? If so just buy a normal shower chair like this

https://www.vitalitymedical.com/swivel-sliding-transfer-bench-by-eagle-health-supplies.html?network=g&device=m&keyword=&campaign=916499233&adgroup=pla-342593351175&gclid=CjwKCAjw4871BRAjEiwAbxXi2zr3WJpH3Ik39V_hlZiG7aL9yBYKP1avcuYAVgPw-cNZ10pu47ihExoCuU0QAvD_BwE

The word portable adds a lot of money to a chair and a lot of times non portable chairs are fairly portable if you aren't flying,Yes we’ll be traveling in the car, a civic hatchback lol. It definitely has to be padded I guess I should’ve specified and it has to be able to breakdown somewhat.Affordable portable travel commode,https://goesanywhere.com/collections/portable-commode-shower-chairs-tub-slider-chair/products/go-anywhere-sport-portable-tub-bench-transfer 

I haven’t begun traveling yet, but this is definitely the cheapest option I’ve seen. It just might get overly expensive if you add a bunch of accessories.,This is one that I’ve seen recommended a lot through a group I follow on FB! We may buy this but it’s an extra $150 with the extension and back rest which is ridiculous imo.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Tailbone out of alignment,I see a chiropractor twice a month to keep myself in alignment. My pelvis gets out of alignment often to the point where my one hip won’t even touch when I am laying on my stomach. It gets really twisted. I know some people with SCI are skeptical of seeing one but I don’t allow mine to crack anything, they just stretch and manipulate my lower body to realign me. Is there one you could go to?,Yes I know a chiropractor I can go to. Thank you so much!Tailbone out of alignment,I have a friend that had this problem (c5 injury). I'll text him and get back to you.,Thank you.Tailbone out of alignment,Would a donut cushion, such as some folks use when suffering from hemorrhoids, help?Tailbone out of alignment,You should visit a chiropractor. I'm 1 year post injury and my body was all fkd. Look into it!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
College with an SCI?,My uncle used his accident 3 years ago as an opportunity to go back to community college and finish his degree. The accessibility offices at the CC we both attend has free services so that he was able to have somebody take notes for him in class and all of the material and testing was accessible to him. Don’t let it stop you! Community college is a great option to for people who did not do so great in high school and may even do better in college than they did in HS,Thanks for the comment! I had really good test scores in high school and I don’t really want to go to community college for personal reasons, but I appreciate the perspective!College with an SCI?,I think community college makes sense if you can transfer credits, you also save money. Get a few classes out of the way, work out any issues, and transfer after the first year or semester. You need to check with colleges in advance about accepting credit transfers. There's usually space available after people drop out, but you miss out on some of the freshman socializing. It gives you a chance to ease into college level work without stress of getting your basic sci stuff setup/taken care of in a dorm room. It can really depend on which college, because you want to go somewhere where you have the right accomodations and accessibility.

I went straight to college after graduating, but took almost two year off during high school after my sci. My grades were very good. I still had issues with personal living issues in the dorm and it didn't help academically, and there was a grade drop. Some colleges have no experience with accomodations related to sci because most students are there with something like ADHD. You definitely want to check them out first.College with an SCI?,Definitely don’t overlook community college or state/public colleges as a starting point for your university career. I had a great GPA in high school (way before I had my spinal cord injury - my GPA would have taken a nose dive in that situation too!) and when to a state school because my dad was a professor there and I got free tuition. (No, he didn’t teach any of my classes and he had transferred to one of the regional campuses so we never saw each other at college.) I kind of resented it at first because I wanted to go to a “good school” but I actually had an amazing experience. I was in the Honors College so we had smaller class sizes, so that’s something to keep in mind if you’re open to state schools. You could always start off at community college or a regional campus and transfer into the honors program at the main campus, if you have a similar system where you live. And state schools often have more resources for disabled students - my nephew now goes to that same university and has had great support from disability services. 

I also took my last two years of high school at one of the regional campuses and again they had smaller classrooms and better teaching. Staff at bigger and most prestigious universities are often hired based on their research, not their teaching, so with community colleges and regional campuses you tend to get more staff who just love teaching and have more time to focus on it. 

Whatever you choose, good luck!,Thank you for the response! I’ve definitely considered going to a state school. I’m just not quite on board with a CC for personal reasons (I’ve always really wanted to get the ‘college experience’ although I suppose now that things have changed a good bit that might be a silly reason)College with an SCI?,So I have just a tad bit of expirence with poor HS GPA and college. All of that stuff you see on internet, what your counselors say,  and probably classmates say is a lot of hearsay and kinda misleading. You can totally get in with a poor GPA, mostly because I've done it. Just once you apply it will probably flag you application and say you will need to write an essay explaining your situation, how you've changed, and how what happened in HS won't happen again. All you have to do is answer the questions BUT, and this is important, you should have an open line of communication with admissions and the office of disability services explaining the situation. Your more likely gonna get an acceptance notification that way. 

Now that being said, if school is just hard for you, then CC is a great way to get your feet wet, save money, and get back into the rythem of things. A real college is so much harder than most people realize and honestly most of them are not accessible or accommodating. Its a sink or swim atmosphere at those places and if your not ready for that then don't do it. Having a bad college GPA is waaay worse than having a bad HS GPA.

If you want to go to a full university, TOUR THE CAMPUS. Every schools says they're ada and accessible, but thats because the pretty much have to be. Example: The University of Cincinnati. They are "technically" accessible but in order to go across campus you gotta go through like 2 buildings, up 2 elevators, and up a hill....imagine if there is snow or rain or God forbid an emergency, you are totally screwed. If they have to close a certain entrance, again, screwed. 

That being said it really depends on how much you want to put yourself through. I agree CC sucks, if you want the college experience then don't go to a community College. But they are typically more accessible. If you want to go to a university, coordinate with the office of disability services, this is their job, they will accommodate.

I hope this helps, pm me if have questions.

Source: lots of personal experience.,School was hard for me sophomore and junior year because I was in and out of the hospital, senior year once I had adjusted to being in a chair I was fine and my GPA went back up (Weighted senior year it was a 4.2). Would you mind if I DMd you with some questions? Thank you so much for the response!College with an SCI?,I was injured after my freshman year of college and after taking a few years off I went back to community college. Like another comment said, disability services will be extremely helpful in making sure that all of your needed classroom accommodations are available to you. I also had pretty bad grades my first year of college, but after getting myself together post injury they improved markedly. I graduated with an associates degree two years ago and will receive a bachelors degree in December.

Disability services offices can vary widely as well. I am at a large university that has a reputation for being very disability friendly and this has been a significant improvement over the services offered at my very small community college. That being said, my experience at the community college worked wonders for both raising my GPA and helping me adjust to college with an sci. I wouldn't have gotten into the university I'm at now without those years of CCCollege with an SCI?,Hey I was injured in high school as well. I did two years at Community college then transferred to a bigger school out of my hometown (Best thing I ever) 

If you’re in the US, check with your Vocational Services. They are extremely helpful. They can help you with cost and getting personal care and accommodations.

PM 
 I got a degree in engineering btwCollege with an SCI?,My GPA in highschool was ok, I've always been fairly smart but I'm lazy as fuck and never learned to study so I really coasted. I got into college and fucked it hard by partying away money, I declared academic bankruptcy (basically wipes everything) and then proceeded to fuck it up again. Now im 30, almost 2 years past my injury and the state is going to pay for me to go back. If I can get in again so can you. 

Find your vocational rehab person (usually done by zip code by the state). They can help you get in and get it covered. Also take time to visit the administration office of the college you want to go to (probably do that before vocab) and explain the situation. There are strings they can pull to help you.College with an SCI?,Hey! Had a severe skiing accident two years ago. Injured L3-L5 + a burst fractured pelvis. Was in 3 surgeries that accumulated to ~24 hours. Happened when I was 16 and I just finished my first year at university. I’m in Canada so I’m not sure if that makes a difference. 

My university is pretty accommodating but I still have to do physio weekly. I really recommend emailing potential universities/colleges to see how they can help with your experience. Also, there is not shame in taking less courses. Quality over quantity. 

Chronic pain sucks but I somehow managed. It will only get better here from now on. Don’t lose hope no matter what. Just be grateful that you are alive and you have so much potential in you. I believe in you!!,My main goal is just getting into collegeCollege with an SCI?,[deleted],I know there’s nothing wrong with Community College, it’d just make things a lot more complicated.College with an SCI?,Attending a CC and then transferring out is actually a smart plan. You save money on tuition and get your pre-requisite classes knocked out at a discount. No one is going to care that you went to a CC after graduating from a 4-year school. I don't see how it makes things more complicated. You can still experience college life at a 4-year school. I joined my fraternity when I was a junior. As far as your parents go, they don't seem to have your best interests at heart or you don't portray them that way, no offense. If they wouldn't allow you to live with them while attending a CC or because you attended a CC for two years, then they're not the most caring or the most sensible.,Just because my parents aren’t the most sensible doesn’t really mean I can just do it anyways, right now I still kind of need their support for certain things.College with an SCI?,Hello! Have you heard of The Ramp Less Travelled? It’s a non-profit designed for folks with SCI trying to navigate college admissions. They even offer scholarships! 

Here’s the link: http://ramplesstraveled.org/our-solution/,Never heard of them, sounds like a great resource! Thank you so much.College with an SCI?,Saw the comments about your parents caring about school prestige: would they be okay with you going to a worse non-CC though, just cuz it wasn't a CC? Because there are definitely worse options than CC, and at least community would give you the potential of transferring into a more prestigious school.

Put another way, if you can't get into a good school, what are your options? (it's always good to have a backup plan)

As for the whole college experience thing, if you mean living and experiencing dorm life, some schools still give you the option to live in the dorms even in your junior and senior years (esp if you have SCI), so I wouldn't rule that out either!

Now, all that said, what in particular about the process are you asking about? Application? Vetting schools? I've been out for a while now, but I don't feel like my experience was too different from non-SCI folks aside from logistical stuff (more limited dorm options, but guaranteed options, etc etc).,My main concern right now is just applying with a low GPA. I have good test scores and everything else, the only problem is really the low GPA. I’m just not really sure if colleges will take into account the fact it’s not really my fault or if its gonna be instant rejection anyways. Also I’m slightly worried about campus accessibility, especially because I’m not gonna be able to visit too many campuses that aren’t within a reasonable drive. I use a power chair and stairs are scary. Hills can also be scary haha.College with an SCI?,What kind of mentality is "I can only do community college"?  That's a pretty big slap in the face to anyone who attends community college like it's somehow beneath you or people who actually care about education.  How about taking community college as an opportunity to better yourself and get a degree? 

Are you Asian by chance, this mentality is huge among Asian families. 

I'm disabled and fucked around in HS cause HS is mostly just BS anyways and had a 1.6GPA by the time I finished.  Ended up in community college where I \*gasp\* saved money and took exactly the same classes as anyone else in a university.  I then went on to transfer to a university and graduate.  I also then went on to get my MA.  So don't give me any pathetic line about community college as somehow an afront to your moral code.,I’m not Asian, but my parents won’t let me stay at home if I do community college. There’s really no need to be hostile, it’s not solely my choice, I never said it was inferior it’s just not what I personally want to do.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Need a little help,There’s different degrees of autonomic dysreflexia which I’m willing to bet is what you’re experiencing, on the low range.

Call your doctor and ask if a prescription of captopril is appropriate. 

For the mid to high range, acute AD, having a tube of nitroglycerin paste near your bedside might save your life someday. No one wants to go out via hemorrhagic stroke.

If you’re really against written scrips, some otc lidocaine spray on the burn might temporarily keep the pain signals from getting to your spinal cord.,thanks for the info, i finally got into see my doctor but he has no idea what AD is and seemed really stand off and dismissive about everything so he just referred me to a neurologist. my BP has stabilized, in retrospect it probably wasn't a good idea to wait and see like i did but oh well. is the captopril more of a take as needed or long term med?Need a little help,Assuming you’re in the US, there are no approved OTC drugs for high blood pressure. Your best bet is to phone your GP and let them know what’s happening, and also avoid salt and caffeine, eat potassium (or take a potassium and maybe a magnesium supplement), and increase your dietary fibre.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Gabapentin: love or hate?,It's worthless. They put everyone with SCI on it, I quit taking it and lost 20 pounds and had no change in my pain level's,Why do you say worthless?Gabapentin: love or hate?,Do you get a lot of nerve pain? 3600 mg/day seems like a lot. I take 1500 mg/day. I used to take 2400 mg/day. Funny thing is when I lowered the dosage I didn’t really notice a difference.,Yeah, had been on 1200 when I first started therapy about 2 months after my accident. That eventually went to 1600, then 2400, and now I’m at 3600. I started experiencing severe muscle spasms, tightness, and pain this January, thus the increase to 2400mg. When that didn’t seem to help, I was recommended to a pain specialist to be evaluated for CRPS. Well Covid put a damper on that plan. After a teleconference, he did decide to increase it to 3600mg. That ultimately wasn’t the exact solution as the pain, spasms, and muscle tightness are all present just less severe. Now I find myself passing out almost like clockwork every hour after receiving my dosage.Gabapentin: love or hate?,I’m on 2700mg a day and I don’t have any side affects like drowsiness or what not. Or at least I don’t feel them. It helps with my nerve pain I get and I have an extra PRN that I can take if I have a nerve pain flare up. Hopefully I’ll get off work it or a lower dose because I’m tired of swallowing yellow pills 3 times every time at lunch, brekky, and bed :/Gabapentin: love or hate?,Was on it for ~4 months and made 90% of my pain go away. But it was a lot of work to stop using it. 

Took me about ~2 months to stop using it cuz I had to reduce dosage at a small amount at a time. Caused sleepless nights cuz my nerves/body was so used to being numb from the pain. 

I’m glad I’m off of it completely because I don’t get drowsy as much and my attention span has significantly increased.Gabapentin: love or hate?,I just started taking it about a month ago. Havent had any side effects yet but I'm only on 900mg a day. Hasn't really helped the nerve pain I think the dose might need increased?Gabapentin: love or hate?,I was taking 3600 mg every day for three years and one time when I was filling my weekly meds, I forgot to include it. I was in the ER for three days with hysterical episodes of AD and I was straight up withdrawing from the medication. After that, I decided I was going to wean off of it which took about three months and now I’ve been off of it for about a year. The main thing that being off it helps with is regulating my temperature. Because my nerve pain is a burning sensation, I am less cold than I used to be because my nerve pain is a little bit more consistent now. My nerve pain is still pretty bad, but I can use PRN drugs like amitriptyline when it gets really bad.Gabapentin: love or hate?,HateGabapentin: love or hate?,37 years old, injured when I was 20 (C5/C6).  Been on 3000 mg a day the entire time. Not even sure it does anything at this point, other than a placebo affect I suppose.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Any of my fellow quads got tips on how to crack an egg?! I tried and it was HARD!,I love your bingo card and problem solving in this video! You should consider cross posting to r/OccupationalTherapy. I was intrigued about methods for cracking an egg and found a video of a woman who seems to have a similar level of function sharing her technique: https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=GxPlHZInblA I hope it is helpful!,Thanks very much! That is helpful! I’ll think about crossposting over there!Any of my fellow quads got tips on how to crack an egg?! I tried and it was HARD!,I use my mouth :D,Do you really?! I debated trying that!!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I have a friend who is struggling to find pain management that he is happy with.,I don't believe Oxy helps at all with nerve burning sensations. 
But it can cause stomache pains and bowel problems. Has he tried quitting them and see if there any difference?I have a friend who is struggling to find pain management that he is happy with.,RSO or Rick Simpson Oil will help with everything from the pain to the spasms and it's a natural extract.I have a friend who is struggling to find pain management that he is happy with.,Like to be the samePosted Question, Comment, Reply
Question about incomplete T4 sci,Hi! T2 incomplete here with a similar surgery. I went into the surgery able to move my legs and came out with nothing for a while. I found inpatient rehab to be super helpful though! Right now I still don’t have any useful function but I’ve regained a lot of sensation in my lower body and can fire certain muscle groups. I’m 11 months post accident. Feel free to ask me if you have any other questions! And also each situation is better different, depending on the severity of her injury it’s possible she could be walking by the time she’s done with rehab. I do really suggest inpatient rehab though if she can, it’s super useful and gets a lot more progress done and has more access to care during the initial recovery stages.Question about incomplete T4 sci,Hello. I suffered a spinal cord injury almost six years ago. I fractured the C6 vertebrae and am a C7 quadriplegic. I am incomplete meaning I didn’t completely sever my spinal cord. As far as the ability to walk again, the first year will give you an idea. That’s the time span you’ll see any improvement in mobility of the lower extremities. The only thing I regained was the movement of some of my toes but everyone is different. 

I was in inpatient rehab for two months. I personally don’t picture going straight home to do pt but that’s just my experience. The idea of having to do it ducks yes but looking back I wouldn’t do it differently. I improved a lot and had some great friendships made from it. You learn a lot. 

This injury is very scary in the beginning. I do want to tell you though regardless of what happens, it does get better. I’ve talked with numerous others that have been early in their injury and they feel like life is over. Far from it. I’m independent as a quadriplegic. I have a vehicle I can drive and go out and still do all kinds of fun things. Mindset is important during this time. Being there for her and keeping her positive will go miles. 

If you have any other questions I’ll be happy to answer. Also if you look on the pinned post you’ll see a link to the discord group. There’s a lot of active people in it that will be happy to help answer questions too. They talk about things related to the injury or just regular things like what shows are really good at the moment. It’s a really good community.,C3-c4 here. Like the previous person said it's different for everyone. I can walk but its extremely slow and with a limp. Also, did OP say if it was complete or incomplete?Question about incomplete T4 sci,It depends - each injury, even with the same mechanism, in the same pattern and level, has different outcomes. Some loss of mobility, sensation and function ( below the injury level - bowel, bladder, etc) is likely to happen and can be permanent. An incomplete injury means there’s more potential for recovery but it is rarely complete recovery. Active rehab is key! She will find out more as her primary injury heals and she is tested in rehab and gets more into physio therapy and OT what her rehab overhaul could look like. 

Best of luck, it’s a tough time - just give her the space to work on her recovery with no expectations - be her cheering squad, not her drill sargeant. It’s common for people who get some recovery to feel guilty or like they are expected to be “back to normal” after rehab when they still have lasting permanent issues like pain or spasticity or bladder dysfunction... so try to be that person who just wants to support her recovery, no matter what it looks like. 

I wish you guys the best!Question about incomplete T4 sci,Anything is possible with an incomplete injury. I’m a T12/L1 incomplete for over 3 years now and I can only walk about 300 feet with braces and a walker with help. There are other people with higher injuries that can walk alright. It all depends on the extent of the damage done to her spinal cord. Inpatient rehab helped me tremendously, but I was in really bad shape and stayed in inpatient for 4 months. I still do outpatient PT twice a week and that is really necessary for recovering. I truly hope for a good outcome for your sister.Question about incomplete T4 sci,T11 incomplete everyone is different and everybody reacts different to therapy and speed. How long she’s In therapy depends on insurance her needs and doctors evaluation on  progress. PT and OT will work on your goals. I Highly recommend that she’s stay inpatient and don’t rush home for therapy. I did that and regretted it every second as it took way more to get into another therapy and I’m not getting good therapy at that.  As for her walking again only time well tell. You will see this a lot around here but not to injury are the same even with same lv. They won’t prob release her from hospital until she has bladder and bowl management basic wheelchair skills and transfers down and she’ll prob be in a turtle till therapy and her back heals enough to be self supporting w/o a brace. One thing she needs to focus on is mental health post injury and well as ot/ptQuestion about incomplete T4 sci,Hi just out of curiosity what country are you in. I'm 11 months post injury C6/7 incomplete and I spent just over 6 months in in patient rehab which is normal here in Australia  and it was the best thing for me with out question. 

Now I can appreciate that if you live in a country where your hospital stay is going to cost you the limiting that stay might seem like the best option. I would recommend trying to get as much in patient physio as is practical/cost effective for your sisters. 

I know go to out penitent physio 3 times a week for 1h each  and try and do 1/2h on my off days at home. 

Every ones out comes are different and its a long hard road. Your sister is going to need your love and support even if sometime's that means giving her some space.
I can tell you what her out come will be but I can share my results to date.

I was told I might be able to walk between 5-100m (16-328f) I'm currently up to 1.5km (0.9 mile) with crutches. It ant fast or prittey but it alot more than was expected.Question about incomplete T4 sci,I'm  a t2-t3 incomplete. Suffered 1 year ago today. They say I will never walk again. Its not so bad, my arms work. I have a good support system also. SSDI isn't bad for me and I have good insurance. Any questions feel free to DM me.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Bored in rehab?,I got hurt back in 2006, so we didn’t have issues with corona and restrictions on visitors, but most everyone I knew besides my immediate family bailed on me so I never really had any visitors haha if I was you I’d get on your hospitals WiFi and get a list of Netflix shows you wanna watch and kill some time that way! I watched a lot of movies during my downtime in rehab and it was helpful!Bored in rehab?,Where are you at? My 17yo nephew is in rehab now, only 1 parent visiting also. I can hardly wait to visit him. He just asked me for movie & TV show recommendations....
Try reaching out to other patients & families there? 
Maybe learn a new subject? Khan Academy, YouTube. MITx and Harvard University have free online classes (they are..... challenging.) 
There's a bunch of places offering 'free for Covid' classes, I'm doing some coding classes now. That kind of thing would probably (maybe?) be difficult depending on your dexterity.

What kind of interests do you have, what are your passions? Seek them out.,Coursera, Alison and open learn have free courses as well :) xBored in rehab?,Do you have a Nintendo Switch? You could put 100 hours or more into breath of the wild and or witcher 3Bored in rehab?,Honestly I watched movies - [Mystery Science Theater 3000](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mystery_Science_Theater_3000) was super helpful to me, it just felt like company and there's loads of it so that was pretty helpful. It also might a good time to learn about a topic you're interested in, when I didn't have a lot of function I found a bunch of factual audiobooks and listened through them, and when I got enough function to type I had a bunch of topics to read about/engage with online.Bored in rehab?,A lot of good suggestions so far! I would also like to add talking with your therapists about grabbing you for additional therapy if they have time. Sometimes schedules get changed last minute or patients refuse therapy, and if that’s the case if they know you’re down for some extra time they can come get you. This is especially helpful on the weekends when the downtime is the most boring. You can also ask if there’s some exercises to do in your room and the therapy teams can give you some small equipment to use in the room. I would also ask if there’s any recreational therapy available, sometimes they have some crafts or other fun things to do!Bored in rehab?,I was at craig for three months and I found playing Pokémon go helped pass the time! As I wheeled around and did lots of laps. Lots of mobile games, reading, and movies will help but don’t use it to cope / drown yourself out.Bored in rehab?,I brought my Nintendo switch with me earlier this year in January to inpatient rehab. Kept me pretty busy with BOTW, and now animal crossing is out. Are you allowed to go around to other patient rooms on the same floor? Someone else on my floor had brought his Nintendo switch and we ended up having mini smash bro’s sessions with a couple one of the RN’s and PT’s that also played. Though, I’m lucky SCVMC had a lotta staff and patients around my age (mid to late 20’s)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Annoying iPhone update for quads,You should be able to change these under customize top-level menu settings for AssistiveTouch,Found it! Thank you so much 😁Annoying iPhone update for quads,Can you add/subtract or move around those icons under the assistive touch menu? It’s a fucking crime that you can’t just say, “hey Siri, take a screenshot.”,You can! But only but only within the first menu. All the sub menus are set in stone as far as I can tell!,If you have voice control on, you can say, "Take a screenshot" without even invoking Siri in the first place.Annoying iPhone update for quads,One of the most frustrating things for me is when I try to download an app, it makes me double tap the side of my phone (where the off button is) which I can’t do because I’m a C5. To make it not do that, you can turn off your password but I need a password for my work email to work on my phone.,There’s a setting for this! In Settings > Accessibility > Side Button you can turn on Use Passcode for PurchasesPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Visiting my accident site in today’s YouTube vid!,Why don't you praise modern medicine? At any other point in history, you Would have been dead. God didn't save you. Humanity saved you. Stop misplacing credit to some fairy tale story told long ago,Must be a sucky feeling to have such misplaced anger at something you don’t believe exists. I thank God we live in a world where I can place credit to anything I want. If I want to place credit for me being alive to a zucchini what is it to you? You’re entitled to your beliefs and I’m entitled to mine. The rad thing about life and maturity is when you realize we don’t all have to believe in the same thing and can still support each other. I praise God for the drs and nurses and therapists who helped me get where I am, and the medical school universities I lecture at never have a problem with me praising God so I don’t know why you take such offense to some random dude online rambling. Have a good day!Visiting my accident site in today’s YouTube vid!,My injury site is just about 15 minute walk away from my house. I ride my hand cycle past it a few times a week,Every time I go past mine I like to yell at it haha find it therapeutic hahahaVisiting my accident site in today’s YouTube vid!,13 years for me and I was a week away from visiting my site overseas when we had to shelter in place. Looking forward to doing it in the near future and meeting the guy that saved my life. I'm imagining a very surreal experience. Will definitely check out your vid!,If you don’t mind me asking, where did you get hurt?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
For those who are incomplete or complete, what did it feel like to regain sensation and muscle control?,I went from zero sensation in my arms and hands and almost no motor control (shoulders through hands) to almost 100% recovery over the course of about a year and a half. I don't think I ever felt anything specific as function came back. As sensation returned I would go through various phases of dysesthesia such as pins and needles, a buzzing sensation, pain, and persistent itching. These didn't seem to follow any kind of specific order, and would come and go.

I had to rely on objective measurements to be able to tell how much I had improved. Number of rungs on a finger ladder, number of reps of various strengthening exercises, which theraband color I could use, how much free weight I could use, time to complete various fine motor tasks, number of pushups/pullups/etc at a time and so on.For those who are incomplete or complete, what did it feel like to regain sensation and muscle control?,> how the nerves are damaged when a blood vessel leaks

Blood vessels supply the tissue with oxygen and nutrients and remove metabolic end-products. If a blood vessel leaks or ruptures, the blood supply of the tissue is compromised, and the cells get damaged or die due to lack of oxygen (nerve cells, especially, do not tolerate lack of oxygen well).,Thank you that helps me visualize it a lot better.For those who are incomplete or complete, what did it feel like to regain sensation and muscle control?,I never got full sensation back - but I do have the buzzing sensation and the fun chronic pain. I didn't feel anything super specific just noticed one day that instead of nothing I was getting low level buzzing feelings, and obviously I noticed the pain, but when the pain isn't there its just this kind of buzzing. I regained a lowered tempertaure sensing in my hands and lower arms and use them to assess the bits that are most likely to get cold - but even that I just kind of noticed one day.

I went from pretty zero motor control from the lower jaw/neck down to regaining use of a lot of my arms and shoulders and some trunk. All the measuring was done against other things like I couldn't raise my arm off the bed, or move my shoulder or whatever so I worked to do that and would get like, tiny bits of progress that all incrementally built up to more complex movements. My right hand for example, is a goddamn miracle and I can move the first 2 fingers almost 100% and that was through trying to move tiny groups of muscles. Improvement was basically how well I could do the thing, or how long I could hold a certain position, how fast or how many.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Any Para/Quad Walkers use or used Step-Smart Brace,I'm not handicapped, but my late father was a polio survivor. One of his ankles was surgically partially fused to prevent a complete drop-foot.  I don't know what braces he may have used in his youth, and I didn't really pay attention to his handicap till he was in his 50's or so.  Around that time I know that he experimented with an elastic bandage that he wrapped around his foot and ankle -- in a figure "8" IIRC -- that apparently reduced the foot drop further.

Obviously, I can't advocate any such remedy, but I though you might want to know about it.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Bike riding...,Hey mine is c6-7 incomplete from a bike accident too. I have no desire to ride again but that is awesome that you do. I think it is totally possible for you and what others are doing is less relevant than what you are willing to try. I'd just get on and see what modifications you can come up with. Work your way up to what you want to be doing.  Good luck!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Favorite Piece of Adaptive Equipment?,[Free Wheel!](http://www.gofreewheel.com/),Ayyy I have one of those! Super helpful device!Favorite Piece of Adaptive Equipment?,[Grippitz gloves](https://www.grippitz.co.uk/) \- specifically the outdoor ones, the leather is super durable, and the rubber spiked bit makes braking so much easier when you lack a lot of hand function. Easily the best purchase I've made accessories wise.,I’ve never heard of those! I’m always cutting up my quad paws! Will check them out!,Ooh, those look beefy.Favorite Piece of Adaptive Equipment?,After I first got injured, stuck at home I took up PC gaming. This is around 2008 or so. WASD key movement was next to impossible. I gave up most gaming on the PC and got my first iPhone which is much easier play games on. Fast forward to a few weeks ago, I bought an Xbox Adaptive Controller. I’m still experimenting with how precisely to arrange all the buttons but I’m finally able to play CoD: Modern Warfare again. This time I suck about 10% less :) 

WeMo remotes for controlling lights in the room. I can’t imagine life without them. 

Flexible, silicone straws for a drink containers. Another lifesaver. 

[This](https://razdesigninc.com/wp-content/uploads/2007/03/RazDesign_160915_AT_0242_LoRes-1024x755.jpg)  shower chair. 

[This auto-leveling fork/spoon](https://www.liftware.com/level/) is on my wish list.,That fork is cool but expensive!,Have you checked out the Quad Stick game controller? It's expensive but more than worth the price. 

 Check it out [https://www.quadstick.com/](https://www.quadstick.com/)Favorite Piece of Adaptive Equipment?,Amazon echo. It’s compatible with so many things and is a real life changer.,I’ve seen those do some cool things! What do you use it the most to do for you?Favorite Piece of Adaptive Equipment?,uAdapt which is a handle that straps to your cup. Makes having beers with people much easier. This is easily the best as a c5. 

Ribgrips for pushing my chair without gloves. 

Then a pretty simple one is just putting an extra piece of tubing at the end of my leg bag to aim it easier,I have ribgrips! Love those things! Do you have the covers Or the old style push rims?Favorite Piece of Adaptive Equipment?,A few things:
1: turning things off and on - I can turn on my lights and back off. I can lock my front door and unlock it. I can turn on the TV and go to Netflix and then pick on a show.
2. There is a capability called “drop in“ that treats all of the Amazon echoes in your house as an intercom system. In other words, if I am in my bed I can connect (with my voice) to the Amazon echo in my roommates room and ask him to come to my room or something. This has been very helpful.
3. lastly, it’s just nice to have around for quick math questions or trying to learn what the weather is or setting an alarm/timer. Pretty much any of the basic functions your phone can do, the Amazon echo can do.,That’s rad! So neat!Favorite Piece of Adaptive Equipment?,C4 inc quad and this was the best thing i ever got. being able to just go places on my own without having to fuck about getting in and out the car is amazing. managed to travel abroad on my own with it too, which was also great. 

&#x200B;

 [https://batec-mobility.com/en/](https://batec-mobility.com/en/),Which model do you have?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Looking for resources for caretakers of SCI patients during Covid 19.,There are some good support groups on Facebook.

Wives and girlfriends of SCI - https://www.facebook.com/groups/wivesgirlfriendsSCIsurvivorsupport/?ref=share

SCI Caregivers only - https://www.facebook.com/groups/1507220012904280/?ref=share

Spinal cord injury support group - https://www.facebook.com/groups/1575256319434654/?ref=share

They might have some SCI specific resources for you to reach out to. Do you have any churches near you? Even if you're not a member, they can probably get you in touch with people who can help bring groceries and do other things,Thanks so much for the info on the Facebook groups! I’m going to join. I’m specifically looking for guidance on appropriate hygiene, trips into the world, for the potential of me going back to work, etc. staying safe and keeping him safe. I hear about how individuals at high risk should stay home, but not all of their caretakers can.Looking for resources for caretakers of SCI patients during Covid 19.,I live with the family that caregivers for me. It's a household of 6 adults (3 adult children have lost their jobs). So only one person goes out to shop, quickly, and he showers as soon as he comes home. Otherwise, DELIVERY whenever possible. Meds from pharmacy? Delivery. Need something from the store but don't want to make an extra, risky trip? Delivery. Eating out? Delivery. We've used these services plus hand washing and wiping down packages etc. I don't see any way that caregivers outside of the home can go about their lives without EVER coming into contact with others. Perhaps if you set a rule, such as "You must be not be in a group of 10 or more people" as part of the employment requirement? Just trying to think outside of the box.

I have a friend who, if she caught covid, would almost surely die. She struggles to breathe as is (Myasthenia Gravis) and always has low oxygen sats. She has required her CNAs to follow all the federal and state guidelines or quarantine without pay for two weeks. So far it's working. They need their jobs. No guarantee that my friend or her CNAs won't get covid, still, but at least a risk reduction if you trust the carers.Looking for resources for caretakers of SCI patients during Covid 19.,Care.com is pretty good. It may cost money to pay for one month, but just DM a ton of different people (in every category) and you should get some good options. Then cancel it after the month is about to renew. I would also recommend reaching out to people in your church, if you’re religious. Even if you’re not, many will be willing to help. Lastly, as a C5 complete quadriplegic I have decided that getting exposed to the virus is inevitable unless I want to stay in my house until there is a vaccine. Obviously, we all need to stay smart, but it is unrealistic to think that you are not going to come in contact with people from the outside world. Plus completely locking down can get very expensive quick.Looking for resources for caretakers of SCI patients during Covid 19.,Where are you located?Looking for resources for caretakers of SCI patients during Covid 19.,NebraskaLooking for resources for caretakers of SCI patients during Covid 19.,I’m my brothers full time caretaker. He’s C5 & C6 incomplete. At the moment during COVID we have had his Private Duty Nursing temporarily put on hold, but I get paid through Easter Seals. Contact your insurance company and see if you can get PDN through Easter Seals or a company like that. It will be paid for through the insurance.  Luckily we don’t need to leave the house for much of anything. We can get neighbors and family that lives close by to do any shopping we need and drop it off for us. Most places deliver as well. You can arrange to have medications delivered up to 90 day supplies. Amazon will deliver groceries. And of course medical supplies get delivered every month.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Has anyone ever injured themselves from their spasms?,Hey, I have a baclofen pump. I promise it’s better than oral meds. AMA!,Awesome.  Thanks!  Sorry if this is a lot. 

What were your spasms like before the pump and how do they compare now? How long have you had it? What was recovery from the surgery like? How long did it take for you to get the "right dose"? 

I guess I worry about it malfunctioning, or not working, or running out of medicine and having withdraws.,I’m thinking of getting one. My spasms are so bad and they last throughout the night so I can’t sleep and I’m on the highest dose of baclophen and dantreen. During the day I just thump in my chair and if I move my legs I do the sewing machine effect. How long did you get your implant? I was told I need to wait a year before I get one :/Has anyone ever injured themselves from their spasms?,My spasms are by far the worse in the morning as well. I have experienced a fall due to my right leg just deciding to forget how to properly function and spaz out on me. Good times.Has anyone ever injured themselves from their spasms?,I’ve kicked three CNA‘s and one PTA in the face because they didn’t listen to my warnings. No injuries though.Has anyone ever injured themselves from their spasms?,Not quite what you’re asking for, but I broke a toe kicking my feet together in bed. 

I suspect people don’t get injured from the spasms themselves because over time the spasms help retain bone density. Purely a guess though.,Damn man that sucks!  Sometimes I feel like I'm going to snap my bones in half. Those are mainly first thing in the morning.Has anyone ever injured themselves from their spasms?,I've broken nearly every toe nail off kicking walls, I've Knee-ed my desk so hard  my leg blew up like a balloon aand a leg spasm while going up a ramp tipped me backwards hitting my head. 

Mine are worse in the afternoon and just before bed and as much as I hate them i think I'd miss them if my legs were just inert :)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Any cases of covid19 with SCI patients?,We're all so broken the virus stays away lol,[deleted]Any cases of covid19 with SCI patients?,I have a friend that is c6 quadriplegic that caught it. Luckily he could go back home.Any cases of covid19 with SCI patients?,From what I know as a provider, about similar outcomes as the general population but I think it's super important to protect yourself and prevent infection because of respiratory comorbidities,There’s also increased vulnerabilities because of self-cathing or foleys. And since CoVid has been linked with renal failure in some patients, there’s that comorbidity to contend with as well.Any cases of covid19 with SCI patients?,From what I’ve heard, officially we are not a higher risk category. However, with tetraplegic patients such as myself, I would imagine respiratory problems however as this is a dry cough I’ve heard from medical professionals that we should not be overly concerned.Any cases of covid19 with SCI patients?,From the CDR foundation https://www.christopherreeve.org/blog/daily-dose/the-coronavirus-and-spinal-cord-injuryAny cases of covid19 with SCI patients?,Provider here.

Yes, and let’s just say it didn’t go well,Can you tell us a bit more?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
water wand?,Have you tried a water wand and had a problem with a leak?  In my experience, leaks from hose-end attachments, like nozzles or water wands, are typically due to a problem with the hose washer -- cheap and easy to replace.  Make sure you use one that is resilient.  An old rubber washer may get hard and be virtually useless.  

I don't imagine a T-4 injury would affect your grip, but hose connections can be difficult to tighten even for the non-handicapped.  If you have a problem, I suggest you use tools to get a firm seal.  The need for tools can be mitigated somewhat by using a soft hose washer.  If you need tools, a channel-lock pliers (or two) might be the best choice.  Get one that moves between slots (to change the grip size) easily and does  not slip out of its slot during use.  

And don't feel bad about using tools:  I'm not handicapped at all and I have a reasonably strong grip, but I still need a pliers to tighten some hose connections leak-free.,hey, thanks for that! I was gonna come back on here and let others know that it was the hose. The water wand still isn't great and leaks from the head but once we got a new hose, it does't leak at the grip/handle part anymore. I guess the lesson learned here is don't skimp on a good hose.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Any campers here? You might want to check out this tent if you are! Very light at only 2 pounds and super easy to put up!,You should also go post this in r/CoDWarzone :),I'm not sure I see how it applies...Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Would you be willing to be interviewed?,Pm'dWould you be willing to be interviewed?,Pm'dWould you be willing to be interviewed?,Pm'dPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Best spinal cord charities?,Wings for Life imho for research  
But for living with an SCI:  
BackUp  
Spinal Injuries AssociationBest spinal cord charities?,It's expensive to be a paraplegic.  His medical bills are going to be staggering along with the cost to modify the home and auto.,But it’s the U.K. Aren’t all medical cost covered?Best spinal cord charities?,Disabled living UK. I (30f) haven’t dealt with them direct but they helped me put on a training course with work. I’m based in the UK my partners L1 if you want to chat any time then happy to 😊Best spinal cord charities?,There's loads around depending on nature of injury and what he's interested in doing, lots offer support with getting active which helps general well-being and seeing a decent future down the line.  Where are you based and how did he get injured? What's his interests?

* Spinal injuries association
* Aspire
* Backup
* Wheelpower
* Access Adventures
* Matt Hampson Foundation
* Sportability
* Sailability
* Flyability
* CiaO Foundation
* Jubilee sailing trust
* DSUK

I've done stuff with most of these or have friends who have and happy to answer questions to help more!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
My husband drove for the first time..,For some reason this just showed up in my feed for this sub, but that’s fantastic!My husband drove for the first time..,Very awesome! I drove for the first time a little over 6 months after my accident and it was incredible how independent it made me feel. I can only imagine how it must have felt for him after 3 years!My husband drove for the first time..,Thats amazing! What city was this in that he was shot?,RenoMy husband drove for the first time..,hey do you need help setting up an onlyfans?,I have onePosted Question, Comment, Reply
I've written a guide with strategies on how to improve the immune system and stay well.,I glanced over your webpage and for the most part I think it contains good advice -- though I'm not so much into "natural" healing, etc., as you seem to be.  (I can't say that you're wrong, so won't comment further on that.)

A couple things caught my eye, though.  You speak of getting vitamin D from sunlight (which is fine) and from foods.  From what I read, sunlight can easily produce enough vitamin D to maintain your immune system.  The caveat is that you may have to spend a fair amount of time with exposed skin in the sun -- and production of vitamin D is inversely related to the darkness of your skin (as well as the amount of skin you cover with clothing).  

OTOH, foods may not be a  reliable source of vitamin D for two reasons:  They don't necessarily contain very much vitamin D, and they may contain vitamin D2 which is somewhat toxic in high doses.  (If I understand it right, you'd have to go to some trouble to poison yourself with vitamin D2 from foods, just because they don't contain all that much.)  Hence, the recommendation I myself am following is to take vitamin D3 capsules, 2000 IU (50 micrograms) per day. 

Vitamin K probably should be treated with kid gloves.  I am elderly and am taking aspirin as a blood thinner.  My doctor has advised me not to eat a great deal of leafy greens because they contain vitamin K, which aids blood coagulation and, hence, is exactly what I *don't* need.  Recent news says that COVID-19 is causing strokes and heart attacks in young(er) people due to small blood clots.  I have no information one way or the other whether vitamin K is involved or would exacerbate this clotting. 

I also don't understand your comments about acidity & pH.  (I'm a chemist, so am well acquainted with these).  In particular, you state, "Lemon water (Negates Acidic Body PH levels)"  Lemon water would be acidic -- so how does it negate acidic pH levels -- and why would you want to do so anyway?,Hi! I thought this post went to spam but maybe it didn't. Great to hear from you.

Yeah there are many distractions and so the amount of time spent outdoors is reduced significantly. Foods have less Vitamin D but, digesting them in distributed manner is more effective than all in one go. It is difficult to calculate absorption rates.. e.g. Magnesium Tablets vs Ionic - Ionic absorbs better. Food, even slower absorption probably, but more efficient for quantities. Out of the D3 2000 IU, not all will be absorbed. If I had a fillet of Salmon, it lasts about 3 hours for me and I can really feel the effects greater than the tablets depending on how it was cooked.. maybe because of the fat and combined components. It can get really complicated. 

Your Doctor is for general advice, best to go to a nutritionist or someone who specializes in supplementation before trying anything. I thought this was interesting [https://www.k-vitamins.com/index.php?page=Clotting](https://www.k-vitamins.com/index.php?page=Clotting) but it doesn't state about interactions.. this was pretty good [https://innovixlabs.com/blogs/insights/vitamin-k2-and-coagulation](https://innovixlabs.com/blogs/insights/vitamin-k2-and-coagulation)

My mistake, the lemon water is metabolized and becomes Alkaline thus helping the bladder [https://www.healthline.com/nutrition/lemon-juice-acidic-or-alkaline#section5](https://www.healthline.com/nutrition/lemon-juice-acidic-or-alkaline#section5) 

Usually I don't trust the search engine rankings as a form of authority.. so sites like healthline have a lot of info I wouldn't agree with. Before going down a trial and error route get some pro advice first of what to be careful with for your own body. 

Hope this helps.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
New YouTube Video Me Getting Up My Ramp,I commend your ambition /drive but I think it's time for a ( Smart Drive )   [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8fn26J59WJ4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8fn26J59WJ4)  to help you out & save those shoulders for transfers when you get older. I'm T-1 & wish they had it 40 yrs ago when I became injured .,Thanks man! I agree! I’d love a smart drive but not sure if my insurance would cover one!New YouTube Video Me Getting Up My Ramp,I have a smart drive. Hate it. It has a mind of its own and I call it homicidal. You have to tap so many times to start, set speed and stop that you get carpal tunnel. And sometimes the drive just doesn't respond. I have normal coordination with weak upper body strength. I ended up buying a Fold&Go wheelchair which has been wonderful (only exception being I can't get it into and out of my non-accessible hatch back car), which might be a deal breaker for you if you're more independent than I am.,By the way, I loved your video.
Looks like you got the mailbox of doom too - it's on an inclined part of the ramp rather than a landing. I would have paid to see and hear the neighbors reactions. Lolol. Love it! I'll have to check out more of your bingo game. Good on you for working hard to gain more independence. It's a fight for sure.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
DARPA getting involved in spinal cord injuries,The part that caught my eye was the mention of sensation and proprioception. There's a few studies that have successfully improved strength and bladder with different sorts of stimulation, but sensation and proprioception, in combination with motor and autonomic function be huge.DARPA getting involved in spinal cord injuries,Thank you for sharing.DARPA getting involved in spinal cord injuries,Sign me the fuck upDARPA getting involved in spinal cord injuries,Damn that's dope! I volunteer 😁DARPA getting involved in spinal cord injuries,My husband said he’s down.DARPA getting involved in spinal cord injuries,Nice news on lock down 
Soon we’ll be prancing about kicking 🦵 assDARPA getting involved in spinal cord injuries,I like seeing this information posted hereDARPA getting involved in spinal cord injuries,But as always they will uses person born disabled live in date/fed fund lockdown group home and the test toys again...  If it work great a few due great again...  So to say I have watch the very game Evey few years   I know it the way of the system. To uses the disabled as test tools like we don't get a full day in this(ie ???it may help you?????)  

Keep on the primates long term before even cutting on someone disabled....,What are you trying to say? Don't know if it's just because i'm tired but i'm having issues understanding your commentPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Bedsore help,What kind of bed do you sleep on? I would suggest you to sleep on a alternating pressure mattress. The kind of which in the following link:

[https://www.kosmochem.com/ProductDetails.aspx?CatID=244&PID=581](https://www.kosmochem.com/ProductDetails.aspx?CatID=244&PID=581)

I dont know where you live, but I am sure you can find something similar there. 

I suffered a lot of bed sores being a T12 level paraplegic but since I began sleeping on the above mattress, no more bed sores! (Touchwood)

Also use an air cushion when sitting in your wheelchair. I use a Roho Quadtro Select High Profile cushion.,I’m not well versed in the matter at all, but I did get a stage 3 bedsore on my butt prior to entering inpatient rehab. They put me on a high protein diet to help the wounds heal/repair.I was also put on a 2-4 hour restriction on my wheelchair and was given a roho cushion during my stay (basically, if I wasn’t doing PT or OT, I was on the bed). On the bed I was rotated every 2 hours and the wound healed within 2 weeks(?)

Edit: I also had an alternating pressure mattress that Paraman007 mentioned,Thanks I have a low pressure air mattress and I live at home, I use a roho cushion when I get up.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Experimental Procedures,https://www.themiamiproject.org/participant/research-participation/what-are-clinical-trials/clinical-trials/Experimental Procedures,I'm not sure what level you are but I am a C5 6 and 7 - complete from MVA. Much stronger right arm than left. When I was first hurt back in 2014 I was at the same point of desperation. I found a stem cell trial to be enrolled in and was one of the lucky ones to be injected with like 40 million, 20 above and 20 below my lesion. Granted this was several years ago and perhaps stem cell therapies have come a long way since but not that I have found. Regardless, I woke up tied down and intubated once again in my life and not having any idea what the hell happened. I should add the stem cells did nothing to improve my function and actually cause me to lose some left toe wiggles. Time went on and I was eventually accepted into another clinical trial, this time Dr. Harkema's epidural stimulator trial in Louisville. This called for a 2-year relocation. I had just received my service dog and finally started to swallow the pill that I was chronically injured and I would just have to figure life out. I threw myself into advocacy and played an instrumental role in Ohio passing a research grant for spinal cord injuries. I wound up passing on the trial. Life is certainly different and while I would do just about anything to get everything back, I slowly learned how to navigate the new freeway of life. It's not for everybody, advocacy or adaptive sports or whatever else the community wants to throw at you. But just know that you're far from being alone. I wish you all the luck in wherever this crazy journey takes you.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Hopefully a little light at the end of the tunnel in the future,believe it when i feel it,I'm right there with you man. So many potentially promising studies/experiments, but we'll just have to wait and see.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
New YouTube Video! How I Wash My Hair In My Chair,Here is a link to a sink similar to the one I use!


https://www.amazon.com/Height-Adjustable-Portable-Shampoo-Treatment/dp/B01K4IA21Y/ref=sr_1_4?dchild=1&keywords=hairdressing+sink&qid=1587925913&sr=8-4New YouTube Video! How I Wash My Hair In My Chair,Ah I love that! I always miss the shampooing when I go to bsrbershopsNew YouTube Video! How I Wash My Hair In My Chair,Much better on conciseness! Only feedback is, if you were going to make the effort to clap for transitions, make your cuts on the claps. Good video though!,Thanks so much for your feedback! Honestly the claps just come naturally they aren’t really intentional, but that’s an awesome idea to incorporate them into the cuts! I’m still learning the editing process so I’ll try that on my next video! Any video ideas you think would be a good idea to make?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Getting harder to stay positive,I have moments but no. I'm not happy either. It took me 2 two years to come to terms with how much I've gained back (which isn't much for C5). That's when I was rediscovering how to be like the old me. You're still there but in a different form. Trust me, you'll get there. Finding out how just takes time. 

Once I figured out how to use a playstation controller is when I realized that not all was lost. Started a company, was part of creating a mobile game, finished school, got married then divorced. I've done more in the chair than out. Cooking, the laundry, creating art, walking a dog. Life is nuts but some good can come out of this. It's about what you do with what ya got now.,This is so great of a response, it's just what I wish I could communicate to everyone newly dealing with this huge loss.Getting harder to stay positive,My honest answer to you. I’ve been in a chair for coming up on 11 years from now. I am a C6 complete quadriplegic after a diving accident after a day of drinking. My honest answer, you will have bits and times where you are happy, but something about my past life I just can’t let go of. I’m not depressed, but I don’t think I will ever be as carefree and happy as I was before my accident. 

I was truly free. I was like you, I lived my life at 100 miles an hour at a time. Absolutely nothing holding me back. I was 20 when I hurt myself. But that doesn’t mean your life now is going to be completely shit, it’s just gonna be different than it was. You’re going to do many things in this life that you never would have done in your old life, and there’s things in this life that you would’ve never had to do, had you lived your other life. 

But there’s no going back, even if you get 99%, you’ll still notice how you’re missing a step here or step there. 

I asked myself every day why am here, I don’t know if I’ll ever get an answerGetting harder to stay positive,C5 Asia d. 10 years post injury. It's tough man, I'm not going to lie. There are the good days and there are the bad days. There are the good months and the bad months. It all really comes down to your mentality. You need to set achievable goals and really be frank with your inner dialogue. This is some serious shit that happened to you so it's time to be serious about your thoughts. 

Surround yourself with people you love and start doing things you can do and that you enjoy. Yeah maybe you can't do the things you did before but the world is vast and there are so many things you can do. Don't knock it till you give it a try, whatever it is.

There are also so many organizations out there that assist in giving sci people a chance to do something like surfing in Hawaii or sky diving. It's just hard at the moment with covid. 

It took me many years to overcome that dread feeling of not being able to do anything but once you see how people with a higher level of injury do things and how others with similar injuries do things, it gets easier. Learn your new body and know your limitations and never be afraid to ask for help. You'll meet some people who are not down with disabled but there are way more people who can see past it and are okay with it. 

Your ego and pride has been shattered but it's something you will learn to rebuild. Stay humble but confident. It took you how many years as a kid to learn your physical limits and boundaries, now it's time to relearn your new limits and boundaries. 

More than happy to chat. Keep your head up cus it gets better. Your support network is much larger than you think!Getting harder to stay positive,There are so many things I miss. And I just want it all back. It's very frustrating and depressing. I hope you have a counselor and a good support group. I have to constantly remind myself to be thankful for the progress I have made and to keep pushing for more. Life will learn a new normal eventually, I hope, for all of us. Take care. 

Also, 1000 feet is awesome. And I figure if you can do that then you can build on that and you can eventually do more and more, if your nerves still let you. 

With every new ability we wonder if this is the new normal. But life is long, and normal will shift and change.Getting harder to stay positive,:/Getting harder to stay positive,it's ok to feel discouraged - and you're right you may never be that happy again. The question is whether you'll ever be happy in any capacity and given what you've written I think it's a very good chance the answer is yes.

If it's only been a year it sounds like you are doing well. A lot of people say it takes 5 years to 'adjust' to your new life and I've seen that be true. 1 year you're still grieving or even just starting to grieve the loss of your old life (seems like you're just starting based on this post).

Allow yourself to grieve. If you don't feel better in 5 years then you can start worrying, but no need to worry right now. I think everyone who was injured felt the same way at 1 year.Getting harder to stay positive,Hey dude!

Sorry you’re struggling! It’s understandable you haven’t been hurt that long! I am a c6 complete coming up on 14 years. I think it’s important to grieve but it’s also import to know that your attitude determines your quality of life. I always use the cliche saying, there’s no use crying over spilt milk. Life is hard, life can even suck, but if you solely focus on the negatives you will only see the negatives. I don’t mean to dismiss your feelings, but things will get better I promise! Use your pain for fuel!Getting harder to stay positive,I feel outa place in these incomplete discussions, but there is so much hope to recovery in your situation. Even if your mind isn’t with it, fight like hell to wear out your body for a goodnights rest. 

There were some of us that woke up from a coma and couldn’t move or feel ANYTHING below our injuries. There was no recovery. Our rehabs sent us home after a couple weeks, cause they knew nothing was moving. And we’re still out here fighting. 

You can do this. Best of luck from Cali 🌴Getting harder to stay positive,Hey there.  It’s been several days but just seeing this now so, apologies for a late reply. I hope you are feeling a bit better today.  I have a similar injury (T6-T7 inc) and am in a similar recovery situation as you.  June will be 2 years for me.  A lot of what has been typed above rings true so I won’t repeat.  I don’t subscribe to the 1 year or 18 mo. Max recovery model that the PT people spout.  I’m still experiencing improvements, constantly.  The problem is that they are very slow SLOW.  But when I think of where I am at today compared to the first day home 16 mos ago... I am encouraged.  I wonder where I will be in 1 year from now... 2 years.  In the meantime, I feel you.  This sucks worse than anything and there are days I just want to die.  I see my life ticking by and I’m not doing all the fun things I had planned on doing...  I’ll see someone jogging (running used to be my thing) or a couple holding hands and it’ll ruin my whole day internally.  But as is typed above - there are good times also.  For me, this injury has made space to work on intellectual and mental expansion I probably wouldn’t have had when I was a whole - normal person moving at 100 mph through life.  The thing about this new life is that everything takes so long to do.  Many “simple” things require some sort of problem solve or work around whereas before we didn’t even have to think about it.  It sucks every day.  But there are things that you can do now that you couldn’t before...  there are things you’ve been through now that you know would just melt all those “Norms” you envy.  Those are a couple examples of how you might find power in the very adverse situation you find yourself living through.  Stay strong ✊🏼😳- you aren’t alone.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Depression after hospital stay, T4-T6 incomplete,Just getting out of the hospital/ rehab sucks. I spent less than a week in icu and hospital before I went to rehab. Then I couldn't stay there because my pelvis was being held together by steel rods that fixed to an external carbon fiber frame. This meant I couldn't actually do rehab and if I stayed id use up all the time my insurance allowed for rehab. All in all it really took me a good 8-12 months before I felt like I could actually live again. It gets better but it takes time, the best thing you can do for yourself right now is to stay busy. Don't get stuck in your head and dwell on how everything is wrong, instead just focus on the little victories. Being able to move in a chair is better than being stuck in bed. Little wins over time are the key. 

For your bathroom issue, I don't know how far it is but you could try getting a bench and transferring to the bench, slide down it and transfer to the toilet. Thinking outside the box is the only way to get over some hurdles. Life can only get better if you work twords it and even though some times all you want to do is shut down, you have to force yourself out of that hole and fight. Don't be afraid to ask for help either, it's a hell of a lot easier said than done but quitting is just not an option.Depression after hospital stay, T4-T6 incomplete,Are you interested in seeing a therapist?

When I had my first surgery, C2-T1 posterior decompression and fusion, I was immobile for 4 weeks. I had a 4 year old and a newborn. I could not even hold the baby. My wife had to take care of me, two kids, and everything else. I felt so helpless because I literally could not do anything. I was so drugged up that I didn't even remember the first few weeks of recovery.

My sleep schedule flipped. I was up all night and sleeping all day. Being awake at night with everyone asleep was so difficult because my mid was racing. I eventually had a breakdown because I just felt so terrible that I wasn't contributing.

A therapist really helped me through it. I still see her almost 10 years later. I would suggest you consider it.

Hope everything works out for you.,I'm considering it, but I'm afraid he/she won't help or just judge me, and I don't want to be prescribed anything that will radically alter me.Depression after hospital stay, T4-T6 incomplete,I second the therapy idea.  You need someone to talk to who you don't have any feelings of guilt toward, someone you can just tell all of your fears to.  Tell the therapist right upfront that you are worried they will judge you.  Tell them you are afraid to take medications that may change you too much.  Therapists are trained to be non-judgemental.  And if you don't like the first one you talk to, find another one!  Don't worry about offending them -- this is you and your family's well-being on the line.

Right now you're dealing with deep feelings of inadequacy, frustration and shame.  This is, like, the unholy trinity of emotions many people experience post-SCI.  LOTS of us here have felt what you're feeling, or we're even currently feeling it.  You're not alone.

There's often a grieving period that people need to go through.  Your life has changed, your plans for your future have likely changed, and it may feel like the "old you" is gone.  It's OK to be sad about this.  In fact, you need to grieve over this in order to begin moving on.  A therapist can help support you through this.  

If you can, tell your family that you are experiencing depression and are concerned enough about it that you feel you need a professional to help you through it.  Hopefully they will understand, and will continue to be supportive.  They may offer to listen if you need to talk, which is sweet, but like someone who isn't a doctor can't fix a broken leg, someone who isn't a therapist can't fix clinical depression.Depression after hospital stay, T4-T6 incomplete,Please be gentle with yourself and give yourself some time to grieve! Your injury was a loss and it took me way too long to realize this after my SCI. Everything you are feeling is so normal. I prayed to be able to go to the bathroom on my own, even more than I prayed for mobility again. That shame is so toxic and difficult to deal with. But your family loves you and wants to help! And you will not feel so helpless forever- I promise it will get better! And I also completely understand the imposter feelings, as someone with an incomplete SCI I can walk with a cane now 6yrs after my injury. Keep some room for hope & faith!! Sending so much love your wayDepression after hospital stay, T4-T6 incomplete,You’re not a fraud! The majority of SCIs are incomplete and come with vigorous rehab to get back to walking and recovery. This is the most important time to give it your best and be strong for your family. And I don’t mean the emotional part, I mean the physical. 

Your emotions will stabilize, but it could take years. Be patient with yourself on that one. I was actively suicidal for almost 3 years after my injury. Just barely coming to my foundation in this new life. 

Manage your diet well and try not to gain too much weight. I put on 60 pounds since the hospital, but have dropped 20 in the last year and still dropping. Exercise, rehab, and that person you were before is waiting for you on the other side of this struggle. She’s just a little less mobile and will prob have a drier sense of humor. All my best to you. Good luckDepression after hospital stay, T4-T6 incomplete,When I first came home I was completely dependent, moved in with my grandma and she had to take care of me, change my diapers, give me shots etc. this time will come to pass! It seems like a life time I know from experience, Don’t give up, things will get better! 24 (m) c-4 incomplete quadriplegic.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
How’s everyone doing in quarantine?,Bored out of my mind! Although now I have no excuse not to lift every day. Everybody make sure to bust out your spirometer and get some exercise if possible. 

https://www.acsm.org/blog-detail/acsm-blog/2020/03/30/exercise-immunity-covid-19-pandemic

I’m used working and going out in the weekends. And covid tanked both of those. I do have a Netflix and chill buddy that keeps me entertained a couple times a week tho so at least that’s been fun.,Thanks for the blog link! I recently took up shadow boxing it’s super accessible and a killer workout! Haha and that’s good! Watching anything good?How’s everyone doing in quarantine?,Relatively young guy in an assisted living facility. We’re still locked down and I’m missing my friends but I’m also keeping busy setting up an Xbox Adaptive Controller to play CoD. No signs of society breaking down anywhere near me quite yet.,How do you like the assisted living facility? 

I have seen those controllers! How are you liking it? Think it’ll work good?How’s everyone doing in quarantine?,Hope everyone is doing well.
I still work full time from home but been using my stationary hand cycle, standing frame, watching shows and messing with my 3D printer to stay sane. You?,Nice! What kind of things do you create with your 3D printing? I’ve been doing good! Miss getting out but I’m trying to stay active and get in touch with my creative side hahaHow’s everyone doing in quarantine?,Going a bit stir crazy but I recently bought a Switch so that’s kind of occupying my time,Nice! What games you been playing on there?,Skyrim had been my go-to.How’s everyone doing in quarantine?,I've had my injury for a little over a year now and was in great practice for home-quarantining. The nicest thing is that my hubby has been working from home for a while now. I can get hugs and kisses throughout the day. I'm doing well.
How about you, OP?How’s everyone doing in quarantine?,With non emergency surgeries canceled, I’m hoping to schedule a C3 to C7 posterior laminectomy and fusion to go along with previous anterior C7-T1 and C5-C6. I’ve gone from being fairly active and fit to lying in bed and sitting around in the last few months. Feeling useless while my wife does most everything. Trying to limit the pain meds. Absent a traumatic accident, many people don’t understand nerve pain/weakness, and associated symptoms because they can’t see it, until it starts wasting your body.  I’ve been successful in moving some of the imaging, other testing, and appointments up a couple weeks. Should hear something on Monday.How’s everyone doing in quarantine?,It's a great game. Even as old as it is, the graphics and gameplay is amazing.How’s everyone doing in quarantine?,Playing lots of call of duty and doing a software boot camp to beef up my React skills. Just staying inside since I can’t cough very well if I catch the plague. But am taking some strolls outside my neighborhood for exercise with sunlight 😊🤗😌How’s everyone doing in quarantine?,So bored. Finally cleaned out the garage now to dust off my workout equipment, it’s been too longPosted Question, Comment, Reply
anyone know what these spots could be? they aline perfectly with my spinal cord.,They look like the beginning of pressure sores. Are they blanchable when you press on them? What are you lying on?,Yeah grade one. Likely from a back rest?,Agreed. Looks like pressure sores from spinous process of each vert.,the spots are not directly on the bone. they’re in between each knot- so in the dip. sorry i’m not educated on spinal cord vocab 😕anyone know what these spots could be? they aline perfectly with my spinal cord.,Agree, pressure sores. I think you need more cushion on your back rest. Definitely have someone treat them and keep an eye on them,  pressure sores scare me.anyone know what these spots could be? they aline perfectly with my spinal cord.,Demonsanyone know what these spots could be? they aline perfectly with my spinal cord.,Do you have a SCI? Are you in a wheelchair?anyone know what these spots could be? they aline perfectly with my spinal cord.,I had that happen to me but at the top of my back I’m pretty active so it was a bruise. Finally diagnosed the problem on my own. Dumb general doctor and my spinal doctors sent me too have x-rays and shit. Couldn’t find anything. I ordered a new backrest cushion and it went away in 2-weeks. One thing I do when I’m in my chair for hours at a time and not moving. I’ll kinda flip over on my sides so I’m kinda on my hip.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
The Quadriplegic Declaration of Independence?!,Great concept, I think you just need to concentrate it a little more on what you want to accomplish and why it’s important for other people with spinal cord injuries. Your introduction is a little vague and then you jump right into how to make a bingo board, before you have really sold your concept. Combine that with editing out your distractions, and it will be a lot easier for people to get on board with what you are wanting to accomplish. Great work, keep up the positivity!,This is great! Thank you for the constructive criticism! I’ll work on being clearer in future videos!The Quadriplegic Declaration of Independence?!,Hi there! Great video! Love your energy and your idea. Definitely an awesome activity. May I suggest sharing this with r/occupationaltherapy ? I think there are many that can utilize this and also share with others! Thank you for your inspiration :) keep up the great work.
P.S. Ham is one cute, silly, snortin' dog! Give him some extra pets and love for me. Maybe show him some of the old Lassie films so he gets some inspiration ;~D hehee,Thanks a lot! I will share that with them! He is one cute bulldog! Maybe some lassie films will better educate him!😂The Quadriplegic Declaration of Independence?!,Great positivity. Love it,Appreciate that my dude! Hope you’re doing great!!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Nerve pain,I had the same thing and it's good news. This means you still have a connection to that muscle.

This is how I have gained a lot of function back after my injury T5 incomplete.

Once you get movement in a muscle that you can watch with your eyes it's like your brain remembers and finding more muscle groups are easy.

I was told I would never regain anything because I had a significant injury with multiple broken vertibrae and severed portions of my cord (about 10%) but I have regained all of my right leg, my bowel, a little bit of bladder (I can void 80% of my bladder) about half of my core and (most important) my sexual function. I still can't walk due to a poor left leg and core but I'm still working on it.

Just keep sending the message down to that area, over and over. The first movement I got was in my quads. I had the same feeling with the nerve pain just kept pretending in my head to hop in an out of bed. It took 3 months to get the first decent result but within 12months I could walk in a standing frame with a left leg AFO. 

It's hard work mate but the extra function does make a difference, like I drive a normal automatic car with no controls etc. I sort of even got to a point after 5 years where I stopped training because other than walking I am just normal (still sucks though!).

Anywayz, I hope this gives you a bit of MOJO, hit me up if you want to ask anything.,About me: July 6th 2019 I was shot in the back point blank range with a Glock .40. All my doctors at the time and my doctors at rehab 3 months later said it is 100% a complete injury. I’m a T5 complete they said. 

I quickly glanced over this last night and tried what you said. In about an hour span I managed to move my toes TWICE! It was a sort of weird, twitchy movement, but I immediately just *knew* that was me doing it somehow! 

When you say severed, to me that’s a complete because when I think of severing something, for some reason my brain registers that as cut completely through. Care to indulge me about that?

How long ago were you injured? How long after injury did you start to regain those little, periodic movements? 

I’m still unable to freely do it, of course, as last night I was only to accomplish it twice. However, it has lifted my spirits to a new apex, post injury. 

Since they say I’m complete, maybe it’s just my mind playing tricks on me?Nerve pain,Nerve pain is funny like that. It always feels somewhat like sand paper on my ass but over time it's just become the norm. You can see your doctor and try never pain meds such as gabapentin.,sand paper on your ass XD that made me chuckle,I’ve been on that ever since it happened. All it really does is slightly numb it for me. The pins and needles and burning  in my feet and legs never stopNerve pain,I have major nerve pain and spasms. And get the same thing you do when you focus on something to move. One thing that helps my nerve pain and spasms a ton is getting in the standing frame and getting on the floor or any hard surface and stretching the crap out of themNerve pain,From what I understand it's almost like the spinal cord has its own memory. Your injury may not be as complete as you think with some sensory function breaking through.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
The beach,Rent a beach wheelchair. Get a motorized one if you canThe beach,my city has a walkway down over the sand and they have beach chairs for rent (for free, they hold my ID to make sure I bring it back). I always go with my friends and they push me, because there aren’t motorized ones available. we just bring the normal stuff- swimsuits, towels, sunglasses, sunscreen, snacks and drinks. I always bring an extra towel to put over my legs during the sunniest part of the day (if we don’t go to one of the restaurants or bars across the street) because sunburns can cause AD. I also always bring crocs or water shoes, crocs stay on my feet better and water shoes protect my feet from scrapes if I get in the water. 

when i’m getting back into the beach chair from the ground, one of my friends holds the chair still to keep it stable. I don’t have much trouble with it, it’s not much harder for me than a normal floor to chair transfer. I also put a towel under my feet so my feet don’t slide on the sand.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Question for the Incompletes,I was also injured on June 10th, 2 years before you though, weird...

I'm incomplete and can walk unassisted. I have various degrees of muscle control on both my legs, some spots I can feel and move just like I could pre accident, others I can move but have very limited sensation in them. Best way I can describe it is as if those muscles are asleep/numb but I can still move them. 

Sometimes things came back quickly, I could suddenly move muscles in the afternoon that I couldn't move in the morning, other ones came back so slowly I didn't even realize they came  back at all until I looked back on things. 

I know I probably didn't touch on everything you asked, so feel free to ask anything specifically that I may have missed.,Thanks for taking time to reply!  We’re you able to walk unassisted all along or did you spend time in a wheel chair?

Almost 4 years out are you still seeing changes / improvements or has it leveled off?

Congratulations on your recovery!,I was injured June 10th 2010! Small world.Question for the Incompletes,C5 incomplete 
Keep as active and as healthy (diet) as you can. 
Muscle is easier to maintain than grow back.
Hydrotherapy 
Pilates 
The boring stuff works 
EfsQuestion for the Incompletes,C5 incomplete here. Was injured July 2019. Continuous interaction with anything that touched my legs and feet allowed for a daily increase in sensation. Massage therapy seemed to help quite a bit. I, at one point, was not able to feel warm or hot water on my feet. I rubbed my feet periodically throughout the day despite the uncomfortableness, dipped them in hot water then cold, then hot and on and on. 

I’m not 100% with sensation in my legs, but I would say sensation is about 85% there with slight tingling and a strange numbness. 

My therapist told me to continue to irritate any new feeling if sensation. The nerves are hyperactive and increased activity will allow for eventual increase in sensation with normalized feeling. I’m not a medical professional - this is just what was told to me and how I combatted low sensation.Question for the Incompletes,I am c6/c7 incomplete almost 11 years out. As of about a year ago I was still getting sensation return. I can feel both of my legs but they are a little numb/tingly. I can feel pain, pressure and sometimes temperature. Temp just started recently and is patchy. When I was in rehab I could just barely move my one big toe. As of now I can move 5 toes on my left foot and can wiggle my foot a little. It’s definitely possible to be getting return years out. Have you thought about acupuncture? Would that be something available to you? I found a great guy and I swear that I can feel energy and nerves when he puts needles in below my sensation level. I also see a deep tissue masseuse, she is a life saver with keeping my pain level down. They work together to try and keep me as balanced as possible.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Anybody get a tattoo?,I’ve gotten 3. They are on my arms though. Skin was fine, just made sure to keep it clean and take care of it so it didn’t get infected. That was the biggest risk of getting a tattoo in my case.,Whats your injury level?Anybody get a tattoo?,I have two big ones on both my thighs and both sleeves with my hands as well. They turned out great! But my tattoo I just had to be a little patient when doing my legs because of spasms. I’m c6,I'm a t2-t3  , was worried about my skin.Anybody get a tattoo?,I have a few. I have one down my right rib cage and I’m a T-5 complete. Be carful tattooing your injury line is all I’ll say lol. Didn’t think of that!Anybody get a tattoo?,I've got one on my arm, and it went absolutely fine. I intend to get more.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
The ability to continue moving when you are feeling scared, fearful or lazy is the sign of true mental strength,Hey I know that room, it's Shepherd Center! You're definitely in good hands with them!The ability to continue moving when you are feeling scared, fearful or lazy is the sign of true mental strength,Looking good, bro! Keep up the good work and you'll be ditching that walker in no timeThe ability to continue moving when you are feeling scared, fearful or lazy is the sign of true mental strength,Any background context into what happened?The ability to continue moving when you are feeling scared, fearful or lazy is the sign of true mental strength,Yeah either that or an incomplete spinal cord injury.,Are you sure? Maybe today is the day when I'll finally get the mental strength to overcome a complete spinal injury, who knows I could be out jogging by tomorrow afternoon /sThe ability to continue moving when you are feeling scared, fearful or lazy is the sign of true mental strength,Aaayee Shepherd Center!! Let's goooo. Glad to see an SCI patient making progress to walking. How long ago was your injury?The ability to continue moving when you are feeling scared, fearful or lazy is the sign of true mental strength,I got shit to complain about...Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
What worked to solve your incontinence?,Botox. Botox is amazing. Nothing is better.

I had incredible bladder struggles for almost 15 years. Originally did oxy, tried a bunch of other medications but always had ultra sensitive bladder which would spasm and void everything and low capacity (~150 - 200 ml) so I'd have to cath every 2-4 hours.

After 200 units of botox (every 6 months) I cath ever 12 hours, can go up to 18 hours if needed. Capacity is ~600 ml and even hit 850 ml once (I was in a lot of pain though),Same but 200 every 4 months.,How long have you been doing botox injections?What worked to solve your incontinence?,I use botox every 6 months it's heaven!What worked to solve your incontinence?,Suprapubic catheter, I used to straight cath every 4 hours (if I could make it that long) I had problems with bladder spasms. I would always have to wear a condom cath to prevent getting wet.  It became a real pain  with cathing and putting on a condom cath several times a day. I have hand impairments (C5-C6)

I got a suprapubic catheter several years ago, haven’t regretted it at all.,I’m happy an SP works for you! It was an absolute nightmare for me. Hated everything about it. And I had UTI literally constantly. Ended up switching to intermittent cath and I’m never going back.What worked to solve your incontinence?,A friend tried Myrbatriq and Toviaz. Their secondary effects were severe enough that the med was more harm than help. I think he went back to oxybutanin & a low dose of an antibiotic.

Myself, oxybutanin was effective when used acutely, but it had to be bad enough to ride out the secondary effects. I switched to a hydrophylic catheter, which solved UTIs and the addition of Detrol LA 4 mg has been effective for 13 years.

A capsaicin treatment didn't work for me.

Hope that adds to your options to explore.What worked to solve your incontinence?,Fecal transplant,Lol already had that to fix cdiff, don't want either of those again.What worked to solve your incontinence?,I had and augmentation and stoma surgery 14 years ago. I am a woman so the stoma helps me put my catheter in and out without having to fin the urethra.  I helped tremendously with UTI plus no more accidents.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Spinal Cord Stimulator Pros/Cons,[deleted],I hope that can happen for you. I have an idiosyncratic reaction to the heavy hitters. I have to be really careful with what I can take. I can tell you this is no quality of life though...as I am certain you know.,I am really sorry it failed for you. May I ask what you use for relief now?Spinal Cord Stimulator Pros/Cons,Pros: Significant pain relief. Less reliance on pharmaceuticals. Control over settings/timing. Potential for "set it and forget it." You could always turn it off. 

Cons: Biggest risk I've seen is failure over time in that it slowly just stops helping. Obviously with any implanted device risk of infections/bleeding/etc.  Others include lead breakage/migration. 

Overall: I've seen very impressive results with stimulators when more conservative options fail. I believe overall they're underutilized.,Thank you for this informative response! I have an idiosyncratic response to the heavy hitters so most prescriptions are out of the question. I also have Ehlers Danlos. I was referred to a Neurologist for that reason.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I keep dreaming that I’m walking again,Haha I still walk in my dreams but I'm totally aware that I can't. It's so weird.,May I ask how long ago you were injured? And how do you cope with said dreams?I keep dreaming that I’m walking again,I am not paralyzed but my brother died 5 years ago and I dream of him all the time as if he is alive but I know he is dead at the same time. The first year he died I had dreams every night of us hanging out and he was alive but rotting. I feel like your dreams are a way of grieving the life you once had, just like my dreams are remembering the brother I once knew.I keep dreaming that I’m walking again,13 years now and in most of my dreams I'm able bodied. Some I'm in a chair. And a few I'm running around normal but aware I'm not supposed to be. I kinda hate those lol. Able body sex dreams are the best! Till you wake up in utter disappointment......I keep dreaming that I’m walking again,Bro!!! I have those exact same dreams!! Perfect down to the waddle walk or limp or skip!!!,I can’t help but feel these dreams are my body trying to communicate with me in a way. Like it’s saying “just get up, it’s all you gotta do. You got this”I keep dreaming that I’m walking again,Almost five years since my injury.  In my dreams I'm afraid to stop walking in case I can't start again.I keep dreaming that I’m walking again,Me too!!:(I keep dreaming that I’m walking again,I’m at the point now that I’m aware I can’t walk in dreams and I fall. I have recurring ones where I’m driving but realize I can’t move my legs and feet and I crash,I’ve had a few dreams like these. Luckily my wife has always been in the car with me every time and I manage to downshift the car enough to slow us down so she can gain control of the vehicle as we’re barreling towards something.I keep dreaming that I’m walking again,This seems to be a normal phenomenon. I have those dreams as well. About half of my "walking dreams" my body is perfectly fine just like pre injury, and half of them is me walking and riding a bike funny while it lingers in my head "you're not supposed to be able to do this".

The other night I dreamt that I were working my way through some kind of obstacle course with Joe Rogan. Haha.,JRE is my shit! You just made a new friend😂I keep dreaming that I’m walking again,Totally the same here. Same kinds of dreams too.I keep dreaming that I’m walking again,Same here. I just woke up from a dream where it was my first time biking to work since my accident and I was so happy in my dream it went well. I really miss being able to walk and bike to work.,Not gonna lie, not being able to enjoy sex has been the hardest part for me to cope with. Watching your beautiful wife enjoy you while you have to reminisce better daysPosted Question, Comment, Reply
June 11 I was in a terrible car accident causing brain damage, abdominal damn along with a severed spine with a spinal cord injury. A few doctors told me I would never walk again. I stand before you with the strength and will power to show NO MAN DEFINES MY DESTINY!!,Congratulations, dude!    
When I had my additional injury, I went to rehab with a guy that got injured on the same day, had surgery the same night and we both got fitted for our wheelchairs on the same day. I was in a manual Quickie GT and he was in a power chair steering it with a sip-n-puff. I felt horrible for myself but I felt worse for him, naturally. However, he had a much different kind of injury than I did and his recovery was miraculous. Weeks later, while I was struggling to just sit upright without flopping over, this guy comes scooting in the rehab gym using a walker. I was cheering him on and told him that he’s my inspiration. My rehab people told me to be very careful with my expectations because, just like you’ve demonstrated, spinal cord injury recovery is an unpredictable thing that requires patience and the ability to accept whatever the outcome eventually is. Rehab is a tremendous amount of work and you get out of it what you put into it but people need to understand that that guy I went to rehab with and you are ALSO *tremendously lucky*. After six months, if you’re not walking again, it’s not because you weren’t trying hard enough or your doctors/PT/OT are inept. That’s just the way the cookie crumbles sometimes. But if you don’t like what your doctors are telling you, get a second opinion.,Exactly. No doubt it takes a lot of effort for the people who are able to get some motor control back and it's fantastic that they do, but each SCI is very different and it isn't from a lack of effort that some people don't walk again.  


Some sites of injury are so severe that no strength or will power can force axonal growth across the site of injury or make glial scarring disappear, the same way an amputee can't just try really hard to regrow a limb.  


This guy's progress is amazing and he should certainly celebrate, but it's important to realise that we don't always know to what extent luck has worked in our favour.,Your amazing!! I’m going to tell some of my story tomorrow. Hopefully we can communicate and I can get so advice.June 11 I was in a terrible car accident causing brain damage, abdominal damn along with a severed spine with a spinal cord injury. A few doctors told me I would never walk again. I stand before you with the strength and will power to show NO MAN DEFINES MY DESTINY!!,Good for you, brother. My recovery, albeit not nearly as successful as yours, came in waves, and lasted a long time. Hold on to that attitude even if things slow down. It's a good fight to take.June 11 I was in a terrible car accident causing brain damage, abdominal damn along with a severed spine with a spinal cord injury. A few doctors told me I would never walk again. I stand before you with the strength and will power to show NO MAN DEFINES MY DESTINY!!,You look awesome. One of the tough things about SCI recovery is none of us know where our goal line will be or what we can expect out of our bodies. We just gotta keep chugging along and working our butts off till we get there. Keep chugging. You're doing amazing.,Thank you so much for the positivity & encouragement!June 11 I was in a terrible car accident causing brain damage, abdominal damn along with a severed spine with a spinal cord injury. A few doctors told me I would never walk again. I stand before you with the strength and will power to show NO MAN DEFINES MY DESTINY!!,You’re amazingJune 11 I was in a terrible car accident causing brain damage, abdominal damn along with a severed spine with a spinal cord injury. A few doctors told me I would never walk again. I stand before you with the strength and will power to show NO MAN DEFINES MY DESTINY!!,Let’s goo!!!!June 11 I was in a terrible car accident causing brain damage, abdominal damn along with a severed spine with a spinal cord injury. A few doctors told me I would never walk again. I stand before you with the strength and will power to show NO MAN DEFINES MY DESTINY!!,Keep it up brother!June 11 I was in a terrible car accident causing brain damage, abdominal damn along with a severed spine with a spinal cord injury. A few doctors told me I would never walk again. I stand before you with the strength and will power to show NO MAN DEFINES MY DESTINY!!,Bro. FUCK YES!!! This is so amazing!!! Keep it up dude :DJune 11 I was in a terrible car accident causing brain damage, abdominal damn along with a severed spine with a spinal cord injury. A few doctors told me I would never walk again. I stand before you with the strength and will power to show NO MAN DEFINES MY DESTINY!!,Good effort! You are still in early days of recovery so anything is possible. Best of luck to you!June 11 I was in a terrible car accident causing brain damage, abdominal damn along with a severed spine with a spinal cord injury. A few doctors told me I would never walk again. I stand before you with the strength and will power to show NO MAN DEFINES MY DESTINY!!,My husband needs one of these but he’s too tall for one.. he’s 6’7June 11 I was in a terrible car accident causing brain damage, abdominal damn along with a severed spine with a spinal cord injury. A few doctors told me I would never walk again. I stand before you with the strength and will power to show NO MAN DEFINES MY DESTINY!!,Very inspiring man.  Very good to see!  I literally just collapsed into a chair after doing 8 minutes on a walker.  T7 incomplete and 2 years in chair post spinal cord surgery on June 10th...  and only 8 minutes and it just wastes me!  Was thinking some negative thoughts like I’m never going to be able to... Yama Yada Yama.  You know what I’m talking about I’m sure?  Reached for my iPad and saw your video,  Thank you.  I’m going to keep trying. [Posted Below In Wrong Place so Re Posting].  How far are you able to go & how long has it taken you to recover this level of function?  Thanks again!June 11 I was in a terrible car accident causing brain damage, abdominal damn along with a severed spine with a spinal cord injury. A few doctors told me I would never walk again. I stand before you with the strength and will power to show NO MAN DEFINES MY DESTINY!!,Were u wearing a seatbelt?,Yes all my damage came from a seatbelt holding me in placeJune 11 I was in a terrible car accident causing brain damage, abdominal damn along with a severed spine with a spinal cord injury. A few doctors told me I would never walk again. I stand before you with the strength and will power to show NO MAN DEFINES MY DESTINY!!,awesome dude, keep it up! you will get better and better. we all look forward to seeing it!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Collagen Peptides,not collagen supplements specifically but when I am developing a pressure sore I make sure i’m getting extra protein. I think collagen is a protein so I can see how it could be helpful, but I haven’t tried.Collagen Peptides,Chemist here.  Collagen is protein, but contains a the *imino* acids called "proline" and "hydroxyproline."  (These are essentially cyclic *amino* acid, but you really don't need to understand even that much.)  There are 20 essential amino acids -- ones that cannot be synthesized in our bodies -- but these two imino acids are not among those 20.  Hence, there is no absolute dietary requirement for these.

However, it seems that when you eat proteins high in these imino acids, they benefit connective tissue in your body -- including hair and nails.  Your body does not need to convert another amino acid (glutamic acid, I believe it would be) into these imino acids.

Since skin contains a lot of connective tissue, if follows that eating proteins that contain these imino acids would benefit the skin.  I have not looked into whether there be research to support this conclusion.

I see no particular benefit to eating collagen *peptides (*which are derived from collagen by cleaving it somehow, probably enzymatically), as opposed to eating the collagen itself.  Gelatin, cooked connective tissue, including skin, and even tendon and cartilage -- if cooked soft -- are good sources.  (I do eat all these things, BTW, so this is not mere speculation.)

It's worth noting that vitamin C is essential to the formation and maintenance of connective tissues in the body.  Scurvy is the last-stage of vitamin C deprivation and basically amounts to your body falling apart for lack of connective tissue.  (Myself, I take between 500 and 3000 mg vitamin C per day -- the higher end now, as it also supports the immune system.)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
ARA 290?,Preface: I'm a medical researcher involved in clinical trials. I'd never heard of this agent. My initial thoughts:

1. [ARA290](https://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/compound/Cibinetide), also known as Cibinetide, also known as pyroglutamate helix B surface peptide (PHBSP), is a patented agent.
2. The publication you posted is from a [registered clinical trial (RCT)](https://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu/ctr-search/search?query=2010-021518-45) that was started in 2010. The initial pilot results are published in 2014. And now here we are in 2020 and there have only been [3 RCT](https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/results?cond=&term=ARA290&type=&rslt=&age_v=&gndr=&intr=&titles=&outc=&spons=&lead=&id=&cntry=&state=&city=&dist=&locn=&rsub=&strd_s=&strd_e=&prcd_s=&prcd_e=&sfpd_s=&sfpd_e=&rfpd_s=&rfpd_e=&lupd_s=&lupd_e=&sort=) listed on [clinicaltrials.gov](https://clinicaltrials.gov). Basically this mean it hasn't "caught on". *This does not mean it doesn't work*. But there's some reason it hasn't caught on.
3. A [NLM search for the agent](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?cmd=search&term=%22cibinetide%22%5BNM%5D) shows that in pre-clinical trials (e.g., animal experiments) it's being tested on non-specific disease models. Kidney disease, skin wounds, optic nerves. This isn't bad, but it raises the "*throw shit on the wall and see what sticks*" red flag. This is because most of the time a pharmacological agent has a specific target, e.g., it talks to a receptor that exists on a specific tissue (e.g., neurons, or renal cells, or skin cells) that is involved in a disease.

I know I'm not providing you with answers regarding the agent's potential effects. But hopefully this helps with your research.,Really appreciate the response. Your points make complete sense. Thanks for the industry insight.,I like you.,Hi. I have small fiber neuropathy and have been reading about ARA290. I saw your post from a while ago and wonder if you have any updated information. Also do you have any opinion on buying this from an online source, like peptide sciences, and self administering? Thank you for your insight.,Likely hasn’t caught on, because it seems to cure the neuropathy instead of treating it, so it’s much less profitable.ARA 290?,Im interested, having sugary on my spine next Monday and have a lot of nerve damage. Wondering dosages and length of cycles.,My research has shown dosages of 4mg/day for thirty days. Many peptides work synergistically with others. Running a generally accepted as safe peptide like BPC-157 (the stabilized, arginine version) along side it would most likely be beneficial. BPC dosage is 500 to 750 mcgs 2X/day. BPC  is probably the most widely used and accepted peptide to help with healing. This is not medical advice, and although both of these have been available, with Rx, from compounding pharmacies, they are mostly considered research chemicals. Insurance does not cover them or the supplies needed. Good luck with surgery. Nerve pain sux.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
What type of bed do you all sleep on?,With any sleeping surface, you need to keep in mind pressure wound prevention. The hospital bed recommended likely is the surface your doctor/medical provider recommended so if you are at high risk talk to them before switching. That being said, I’ve known a number of individuals with SCI that have self purchased a sleep number bed and love it. You can adjust the firmness and certain models have the articulating frame so you can raise head of bed/leg part if it makes moving around easier for you.What type of bed do you all sleep on?,I use a posture pedic that changes positions. Its not a hospital bed you can purchase them un any storeWhat type of bed do you all sleep on?,DH is 30 years out next month, he’s always slept in a TempurPedic.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Spinal Cord Injury Survey for Women,Is this the same one that was posted 5 days ago?,I think it is.,Yes it is. Still trying to get more women to complete it! If you have any recommendations about other communities I should reach out to that would be very helpful.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Best cavilon to protect against pressure,When you say pressure sore prevention, what do you mean? Obviously there are many ways to prevent pressure sores. Cavilon has many uses.,My wound care consultant recommended using Cavilon on areas that are prone to pressure, like heal, ankles, sacral area etc. I couldn't recall if he meant use the cream or spray.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Working In healthcare with nerve damage after Spinal Cord Injury,I don't have any experience with this, but every program has technical standards/requirements which you would be required to meet.  For example:

> The student must have the motor control and coordination to perform physical examinations through inspection, palpation, auscultation and percussion in order to elicit information.  He or she must be able to perform laboratory procedures, clinical skills and diagnostic maneuvers, with and without the use of equipment. In addition, the student must be able to bend, manipulate, lightly lift to approximately twenty-five pounds, and assist patients.

or

>  The individual must have sufficient strength and coordination to perform the activities required of a physician assistant. These include performing a physical examination involving techniques in palpation and percussion and utilizing diagnostic instruments. The individual must have sufficient stamina to sit, stand and move within the classroom, laboratory, examination rooms, treatment rooms and operating rooms for extended periods of time. They must have sufficient coordination to move about patient care environments and sufficient dexterity to use common medical instruments. The individual must have sufficient motor function and execute movements required to provide general care and emergency treatment to patients. Examples of emergency treatment required for physician assistants are cardiopulmonary resuscitation, administration of intravenous medication, application of pressure to stop bleeding, the opening of obstructed airways, and suturing of simple wounds. Such actions require coordination of both gross and fine muscular movements, equilibrium, and functional use of the senses of touch and vision.

> The individual must possess sufficient visual, auditory and tactile sensation to receive appropriate information in the classroom, laboratory, clinical and other education settings.  Sensation must be sufficient to receive verbal and non-verbal information while interviewing patients and to perceive signs of disease identified through patient evaluation involving inspection, percussion, palpation and auditory information at various frequencies (i.e., patient voice, heart tones, bowel and lung sounds). All of these are essential for the evaluation and treatment of the patient.

or

> PA students must have sufficient visual and auditory ability to observe in lecture-learner, laboratory and patient care settings. Sensory skills required in the performance of complete physical examinations utilizing inspection, percussion, palpation and auscultation include adequate vision, hearing, smell and tactile sensation. All senses must be sufficient to observe a patient’s condition and elicit information through history and physical examination.

> Sufficient physical stamina is required to complete the rigorous didactic and clinical portions of the program. The didactic phase of the program requires extended sitting, in contrast to the clinical phase which requires extended standing and moving about various clinical facilities. PA students must be able, with or without accommodation, to elicit information from patients and perform a physical examination. In addition, they must be able to perform therapeutic and diagnostic procedures in addition to negotiating various health care environments, such as outpatient facilities, laboratories and hospitals. Students must have sufficient motor function to execute movement’s essential to provide general and emergency care to patients. Some examples of emergency care reasonably required of physician assistants is cardiopulmonary resuscitation, administration of intravenous medication, the application of pressure to stop bleeding, the opening of obstructed airways, the suturing of simple wounds, the handling of surgical instruments and the performance of basic obstetrical maneuvers. Additionally, the ability to use the electronic medical record as well as take the national physician assistant certification examination which does not offer paper testing necessitate that students are able, with or without reasonable accommodations, to use computer and other electronic devices.Working In healthcare with nerve damage after Spinal Cord Injury,I know someone with a C4 complete injury who went to medical school after her injury and is now a doctor. She cannot use her hands so she works with an assistant who helps with notes and physical exams. You should reach out to your school and/or employers and see if any accommodations can be made,That is an incredible story much respect for her perseverance!Working In healthcare with nerve damage after Spinal Cord Injury,Your journey will be harder. It is certainly risky to go into a career that demands such high physical strength and fine/gross motor coordination. As an OT or PT in many settings (Ex home health care, acute care, skilled nursing facility), it is literally your job to advance the physical and motor skills of your patients, WHILE keeping them safe. Can you very quickly grasp a patient that is about to take a tumble? When a vent tube pops off their trach in the middle of the session, will you be nimble enough to simultaneously hold onto the patient and with your other hand, resecure the tubing so the patient can breathe? Are you able to transfer heavy people with their own significant mobility limitations?
I’m not saying it’s impossible. You could certainly go into a niche field or teaching, and I think your personal experience with injury and recovery is invaluable. 
Source: An OT who has mostly moved out of acute care and into the role of professorship due to a (very mild) spinal cord injury/TBI.Working In healthcare with nerve damage after Spinal Cord Injury,I am graduating with my DPT from Jefferson university next month. In the cohort above us, we had a woman who had an upper extremity amputation and she succeeded and did very well in the program as well as in her early career. Like others have said, it will take more time, effort, and possibly frustration as you will have to find techniques that work for your body to reach the objectives. My experience is that gross motor strength is more significant in this field. I fully support you going for it and if you need any additional information about PT school let me know!Working In healthcare with nerve damage after Spinal Cord Injury,I'm sorry you had that injury, that sounds like quite a challenge. Your studies are hard enough without that on top of it.

There's a couple of aspects here. Can't speak to physical therapy, hopefully someone else pipes up from their profession. You could very likely find a rewarding career as a PA where your possible limitations aren't an issue (psych comes to mind). However, it's getting through school that presents some serious barriers. The good news is that schools tend to go pretty far, working with folks who need accommodations, they tend to be pretty good about that sort of thing. At the same time, standards and requirements are important and there's only so far accommodations can get you. Frankly this seems quite specific and particular to you and may depend on additional details.

Surgery rotations in particular come to mind as something that could be quite difficult. Standing for extended periods of time without moving while holding traction, as well as suturing/tying can be physically demanding and require fine motor skill. With experimentation, you may find certain techniques are less problematic (one-hand tie for example). That said, there are often a range of possible rotation sites and preceptors, and one may be available with foresight and planning that could be more accommodating. I would honestly recommend contacting a school close to you with specific questions.Working In healthcare with nerve damage after Spinal Cord Injury,Someone here when the sub just got created posted about her husband being a doctor who had graduated fro yale medical school and was extremely accomplished in his field. I don't know if that person is still around but it's defintely a doable.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Dealing with sensations on top of my head,I get this every once in awhile from smoking weed and so do a few friends. I think its the HTC, Cbd. It never worried my friend or me and comes and goes.  I think it's tension.,I get the sensations multiple times a day. But your comment is interesting because THC and CBD have been shown to reduce spasms and spasticity, and I can confirm that it works for me. It seems strange that it would help me throughout my body but cause new symptoms on or in my head.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Trach left in too long,Is he breathing on his own? No mechanical ventilation? That is the important first step. He has to be weaned off of mechanical ventilation. I do not know where is injury was, but some people can be off a ventilator (mechanical ventilation) for periods of time, and then go back on. Ask to participate in their weekly care conference, or set up a complex care meeting with all members of the interdisciplinary team. Explain that this is a concern, and ask for a speech therapy evaluation. They should introduce a [Passy-Muir Valve](https://www.passy-muir.com/?gclid=Cj0KCQjw-Mr0BRDyARIsAKEFbeeJc6WofW3fcYM_uNHLhmw1G3BeZzGGWYfzwEKc0qxT-BXJkw5AyCAaAl5pEALw_wcB) This allows for trial breathing through the mouth, eating, and speaking etc. This could be called by other names such as speaking valve. Utilizing this for trials throughout the day will ensure that he can tolerate breathing, talking, and eating with the trach tube sealed off. Once they determine he can tolerate having the tube sealed off, they can pull the trach tube out. While frustrating, it’s not uncommon to have a trach tube in for several months, even up to a year. At least that’s my experience as a nurse. Others may have different experiences. Regardless it is important for you or your family to continue to advocate for your Uncle. Even if they are not doing anything with it right now, the  team should be explaining why they are not being more aggressive with getting it out.,He’s on a vent at night. It’s hard because my parents are the ones doing most of the communication with the doctors but I’ll try to be more adamant about them taking more interest in it. Thank you for your responseTrach left in too long,Sometimes people don’t need assistance breathing (ie: ventilator), but they need a trach the be able to take adequate breaths on their own. Is the trach capped and has it been for a while with no issues? If so, I think it’s reasonable to ask if his medical team about decannulation. If not, they are likely focused on other aspects of his recovery and rehabilitation right now and he still needs the trach. 

FYI, the typical progression from having an open trach is first use of a Passey-Muir valve, sometimes called a speaking valve. This still allows air in, but all exhales occur more naturally and allow a person to speak. Then usually they will trial capping. Then, if the person is able to tolerate being capped (basically, the trach is not in use) for extended time without adverse effects they will consider removing the trach. The above sequence is done under supervision/guidance of either a physician or speech and language pathologist. Not everyone ends up getting the trach removed and may plateau at any point and the time it takes to progress to each level is highly dependent on the person’s individual factors. 

I think it’s wonderful you are looking to advocate for your family member. Definitely ask questions to the medical professionals that are working with him. They will know his specific circumstances best. Hope this helps.,Thank you!Trach left in too long,Find out the injury level and prognosis. Ask about the speaking valve. Be persistent. They left mine in for a week or so too long despite my concerns, only through persistence was it removedTrach left in too long,My fiancée had his trach in for over a year after his initial accident. He had the intubation tube down his throat for twice as long as you’re supposed to, due to complications, so a lot of scar tissue had developed in his throat. They had to do different procedures to try and remove the scar tissue so that his throat was open above the trach, and after being tired of hearing the “wait and see how this one goes” we got a second opinion, and less than 4 months later the trach was out. 

It’s my understanding that as long as he’s still using a vent in any capacity, they’ll leave the trach in. If he has any other respiratory issues, or if scar tissue has developed, it most likely won’t be as simple as taking it out. He’ll also have to pass a swallow test and see a speech therapist before they’ll remove it, from our experience.,Got it. I guess more patience is needed. I just feel so bad for him and I know he spends a lot of energy saying things twice and three times until we can read his lips correctly. Thanks for your responseTrach left in too long,May I ask what level his injury is at?,Not entirely sure how to describe it. I haven’t been in on the conversations with doctors and don’t know the exact fractures he suffered, but so far he is completely paralyzed neck down, aside from one arm he can lift but no dexterity in the fingers.Trach left in too long,As someone who has been in exactly your uncle's position I can say that it is a very difficult situation. Having the ability to use your speech is in itself a major improvement on your life opportunities. I was on one for four months, but I was eventually able to recover. Again, this depends on everyone and might take much longer for your uncle depending on the severity.

I would strongly recommend speaking to his neurologist/neurosurgeon and pulmonologist. Get whomever who can talk about it to help you.

Some things to let you know. Depending on the level it may take longer to get off the trach and please keep that in mind. Second, when you have a trach depending on the severity of the respiratory health you can have it adjusted so as to allow air to move upward to the mouth so as to allow speech. Third, do you know that they are avoiding it – as in have you spoken to them or anyone you know? Often, the decision is also very difficult for doctors. Fourth, what is his level of mobility with his arm – is it limited or can he use his arm to function like normal in which case you can begin exploring using technology to bridge the gap temporarily. That will also give a headstart later in life to explore other independence mechanisms.,I believe they’re avoiding it simply because it was put in at a different hospital in another state, and every time they are asked about it we are told to “wait and see.” They could be keeping track of it, it’s just seems that they keep giving the excuse that they’re worried about swelling, when his accident was 3 months ago and his last surgery was a month ago. His arm mobility is still low, but that’s something they’re working on in rehab. He has no dexterity in his fingers, so unfortunately he’s reluctant to try anything with it.Trach left in too long,I had to use a ventilator for several weeks after my injury due to complications from my spinal fusion. Even when I was able to breathe well enough on my own, the doctors left the trach in for a few months to get through flu season. They didn’t want to have to intubate me or do another trach if things got bad. Considering everything going on with the coronavirus, maybe this could be what they’re thinking?Trach left in too long,I'll add my weight for advocacy about Passy-Muir valve use during the day. If your uncle is still requiring ventilator support overnight, then there'll be no question of the trach coming out until that support is no longer required, but it's worth pushing the discussion in that direction. My daughter was weaned off her vent over the course of a couple of weeks (her SCI is lower, at T9, but she also suffered traumatic injuries to diaphragm and lungs) having been ventilated for more than two months. The Passy-Muir was a huge psychological boost - being able to speak was definitely a part of that, but the milestones around the various SLP evaluations and swallow tests were important too.   
We (wife and I) were kept informed - in fact were actively encouraged to participate in and contribute to both the daily care briefings in ICU and, later, the weekly complex continuing care conference - I'd also echo the suggestion from u/billrn1999 to encourage your parents to make sure they're part of these discussions too. Keep asking questions - I'd be surprised, and somewhat disappointed, if a direct question doesn't receive a sensible answer. And if that answer is "wait and see" then ask "why? Wait for what, see what?"   
It's a scary and frustrating time for everyone, and it's potentially more damaging to decanulate too early and then have to go in again if he requires breathing support in future. Be bold in your advocacy, but try not to get too upset when the answers aren't what you wanted to hear.,u/oakvillein - Great information. Thanks for sharing your story and experience with her.,Thank you. Hearing everyone else’s situation here makes me see that I just need to have patience and be supportive while still advocating for the best care. Appreciate the responseTrach left in too long,This isn't with regard to the trach but is your family member  making use of text to speech apps for communication?,He has no dexterity in his fingers so he can’t type unfortunately. And he’s reluctant and impatient to use a letter chart.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Tingling feeling,I’ve had it since day one after waking from surgery. If I’m in a quiet room and someone slams a car door in the parking lot or even just drops a fork on the floor, it feels like an electric shock. I used to have reoccurring dreams of falling forwards in slow motion out of a reclining chair. When I reached the ground, I would get one of these electric shocks in my dream. Over and over. This is what it felt like when I broke my neck originally. No pain besides what felt like touching an electric fence. 

Is it possible you’re experiencing PTSD symptoms?,I have the exact same happen to me! also c7 incomplete,You know possibly I didn't think about that I did get injured by a gunshot so maybe my brain is reconnecting with that sound,I think it's just your nerves ??!Tingling feeling,this is interesting bc whenever I heard sudden loud sounds now it’s like an electric jolt in my stomachTingling feeling,I'm much lower (t10ish complete) and I get the same thing, I definitely noticed it more when I first got hurt. I mentioned it to my neurologist at the time and he didn't think much of it, just that it was interesting. Didn't seem to be concerned at all.Tingling feeling,I get that too when watching a scary movie or something. It's wild.Tingling feeling,This has happened to me too.  It happened much more often when I was first injured when it seemed my nerves were much more touchy.

In fact, the first two years I had something very weird going on.  Whenever I heard a loud noise, like a cabinet door slamming, *my fucking legs would twitch* like they heard the noise.  Even if I knew the slam was coming, they would still jump like they got scared.  And I have a complete injury!  I don't know what the fuck was going on, and I don't think my doctor believed me.  

Another thing, ever since my injury I get goose bumps super easy now -- the emotional kind.  Like if I see a cat food commercial with a cute kitten, where before I might have been like, "Huh, cute" and that's it, now that commercial will make me break out in goose bumps all over my arms, scalp, and back...even though my mental reaction is still just "Huh, cute".,I have a very similar reactions to your commercial thing I can see something sad and before it would just be like whatever it's sad but now it was crazy like a whole different reaction in my body but I can't obviously control itTingling feeling,I'm a c4 and it happens to me all the time. The worst is when I'm sleeping and something startles me awake. It takes a minute or two for me to get back to baseline tingling again. During the day it happens when doors slam or the dog barks unexpectedly, but I get back to baseline faster. I think it's because I'm more relaxed at night so when I tense it's more obvious.Tingling feeling,I'm a T9 and get this in my legs all the time. Pretty used to it now so don't think about it, but even large noises that I anticipate (like seeing a door slammed) creates that electric shock feeling.,So it does happen to everybody even when I'm looking at something and I'm expecting it I still get that shock thanks for the your input on thisTingling feeling,Hey, it just occurred to me that a few times I would have gone insane without having a decent pair of comfortable earplugs, the kind that aren’t going to make your ears ache after hours of use.  Secondly, last year I got a pair of active noise-canceling headphones. They too have been a godsend. 

Just thinking that you might benefit from some increased peace and quiet.,I bought the Bose ones but because my everything is so sensitive I can barely stand them it's a terrible feeling I can have that's me without pain is really my face everything else comes with nerve pain or no pain but if it's on my head and it's pain especially my ears and my hair but thank you for the recommendation usually I just use the Amazon echo or my phone I do try to use the headphones every now and again especially if I'm using the computerPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Anyone tried workout supplements and/or stimulants?,Creatine is great, protein is super necessary. BCAAs are in protein, you’re not going to get anything from taking just BCAAs that you wouldn’t get from complete protein sources.Anyone tried workout supplements and/or stimulants?,Lots of good research for plenty of supplements. Creatine is one of the best, IMO. Personally, creatine helped considerably with orthostatic hypotension (I need an abdominal binder to stand without creatine; with it, I feel fine), strength, and endurance. Also like it for brain thinkin'. It does, however, reliably produce a side effect for me. My bladder spasms at lower than usual volumes, and I have less time to get to the bathroom. Over time I have developed a tolerance, & take about 1.5g a day without huge affect to my bladder. If I take a larger dose for any reason, I have issues. I'd be very curious if anyone else has had this experience.,That is pretty interesting. I've been taking Creatine for about a week now and haven't noticed anything like that. Might still take some time before it saturates and I start feeling other effects. Glad to hear you found a dosage though! :DAnyone tried workout supplements and/or stimulants?,This is very interesting.

Also, for those who are posting about their supplements, could you also name the brand that you use? There are a hundred different brands of creatine, BCAAs and so forth.,Hopefully this works out:

Creatine - BulkSupplements.com Creatine Monohydrate (Micronized) (1 Kilogram) 

https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00E9M4XEE/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_api_i_JD0KEbJ3BFGTJ


Recovery Stuff - Plazma™ - Blue Raz - 1,300 g 

https://www.amazon.com/dp/B071L1XBFY/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_api_i_7E0KEb91H9DZC


Citrulline - L-Citrulline Powder by BulkSupplements (250 Grams) 

https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00NBCVVYS/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_api_i_NF0KEbAHRTF5V


BCAAs - XTEND Original BCAA Powder Blue Raspberry Ice | Sugar Free Post Workout Muscle Recovery Drink with Amino Acids | 7g BCAAs for Men & Women| 50 Servings

 https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07KBMJ1L6/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_api_i_qG0KEb4V37C3C


Protein Powder - NOW Sports Nutrition, Whey Protein Isolate, 25 G With BCAAs, Unflavored Powder, 5-Pound 

https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0015AQL1Q/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_api_i_IH0KEbPGPAFZWAnyone tried workout supplements and/or stimulants?,Hey very interesting post.  Thanks!  I have the same injury level as you (T6-T7 incomplete) and am trying to get out of the chair.  Currently plateaud at 8 ugly minutes on a walker.  I am 2 years post surgery which they say is “the injury” now and am continuing to slowly recover some sensation and more function.  I am going to try your supplements and I hope you keep posting on this.,For sure, man! I'll send another update probably around the month-mark to give everything a chance to settle and saturate. I would say jump on the creatine ASAP, and then you can work on the others. That's the one that really gives me a jump and hopefully it'll give you that boost and get you up for longer periods! You got it bro!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Quadriplegic Vlog a few steps + Okaloacoochee slough state forest & Exercise update,Thanks for sharing! I went to a different FL state forest myself today!,which one did you go to?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Question about sexual function,Tried any medication such as Viagra, Cialis, Trimix?
I'm T9 complete, with some sensory loss at T7 as well. Rare reflex erections but good with Viagra or Cialis & simulation. Viagra works for a few hours, comes with headache and congestion, Cialis for a few days and less side effects. Good enough for my girlfriend!

I find vibration generally kills off an erection rather than helps one!
There's a relatively new ferticare 2.0 which seems to work better than the other toys I've tried. Hitachi, Viberect and TENS machines all seem to reduce erection.Question about sexual function,I am S2-S4 and mine gets like 1/100th stimulation but I have urethral separation so even if it got hard it wouldn't function. On top of having zero sensation down there.,I don’t have the desire to feel or function, I just want to be able to get hard so that I could at least perform the task.,[deleted]Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Scared as hell,All these concerns should be brought up not only with your doctor but with your family and the whole team that is in charge of transitioning you back home. As far as strength goes, they’re not going to send you to an environment that you can’t handle without putting sort of adaptation in place whether that be some kind of stairclimbing system or just more time for strengthening. (My fiancé sold our inaccessible house and bought an accessible condo on a Paratransit route and moved us in before I even made it out of rehab). Bring up that you don’t have a plan for bowel accidents yet. Think of all the scenarios and tell them where you stand, such as, “no, I’m not going to ever ask my teenage kid to do that.“ Your team I should know what you’re capable of (at the time of discharge) and give you adaptive tools to make it easier to self toilet and put you in contact with home health agencies you can call if you find yourself sitting in poop at the foot of your bed with no one around willing to help. 

I’m allergic to exercise but when I got home I found myself motivated simply to move myself around my big, new condo and got more exercise than I ever bargained for. (Our shit-heel condo association wouldn’t let us put hardwood floors in so instead we put in the lowest low-ply carpet. In a few short winter months, my arms and shoulders were larger and had more definition than they ever had in my life just from pushing through all the fuzz. I NEVER would’ve gotten there if it were up to me to do bicep curls with some stupid Thera-bands.) Just trying to help prepare meals would wipe me out. Until it didn’t. What I’m trying to say is that there will probably be lots of opportunities to continue strengthening and skill building not counting what they’ll be having you do in outpatient visits. Also, ask your team about where the adaptive swimming pools that you’d be able to use. Plan on hooking up with the local SCI support groups near you. Don’t shrug this one off before you’ve given it plenty of opportunities to help you. (At my very first meeting I saw a graphic reason why people with nerve disorders shouldn’t use electric blankets or aftermarket seat heaters/massage chair things. No one warned us about that while we were in the hospital. It’s not their job to teach you common sense. They try but just can’t warn you of every pitfall heading your way.) 

Write down all your thoughts so you don’t forget to bring them up before you leave the safe cocoon of the hospital.  Sorry if I’m rambling. Two weeks is a short time but you’ll be surprised how much of a difference it can make in inpatient rehab. Good luck transitioning home!Scared as hell,You’re going through big changes right now, and it is okay to be scared. Talk to your therapists about your concerns about going home. Regarding toileting, has your OT tried teaching you strategies for wiping and getting pants down while seated? Without know your individual case, it seems like an option worth exploring.,We tried but I found it so difficult with a diaper on. I'm praying I can regain enough strength in the next week to not be embarrassed.Scared as hell,Thanks for your comments. Hubby reassures me that they can handle it even if they have to lift my chair up the steps. I have a family training session tomorrow so I'm going to bring up more of my concerns to my ot.Scared as hell,Would a bidet help with the wiping? We have one, on the pricier side, that has adjustable pressure and aim, warm water, and a blow dryer. We rent, and we were able to install it no problem on our toilet. It does require electricity but does not require hot water plumbing. It has a remote and the seat itself is just like a normal seat, except a little taller.,I'm still thinking about that option.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
What human body part is long, hard, bendable, and contains the letters p,e,n,i,s?,Heh. Never realized spine & penis were anagram of each other..What human body part is long, hard, bendable, and contains the letters p,e,n,i,s?,This joke has multiple meanings in our reddit!What human body part is long, hard, bendable, and contains the letters p,e,n,i,s?,Bah dum tss.What human body part is long, hard, bendable, and contains the letters p,e,n,i,s?,HahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahagagahahahahahahaPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Spinal Cord Injury Survey for Women with an SCI.,r/sciwomenSpinal Cord Injury Survey for Women with an SCI.,I filled this out, but just a couple of notes:
- not all of the drop-down answers are fully visible on mobile
- some of the answers said “select all that apply” but I was only able to select one
- for the b&b management section, there wasn’t an option for including Peristeen, Quofora, IryPump, etc. These type of systems have _significantly_ changed my quality of life and outlook on my care, so it might be worth having a look at that and updating that section with more options. 

I included my email address in the survey so I’m happy to be contacted about any of the above, especially the last point if there are any questions. Thanks!,Thank you so much for taking the time to do the survey and for this feedback. We really appreicate it. I'll let Dr. Berndl know. If you could also pass this survey on to other people you know who might be interested that would be very helpful. We'll likely be in touch! :)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
The Spread of COVID-19 & SCI,I am a researcher at a neuroscience research facility called the Miami Project to Cure Paralysis. We have put together some educational materials specific to the spread of COVID-19 in persons with SCI. You can view these materials in English and Spanish in more depth here:

[https://www.themiamiproject.org/participant/research-participation/covid-19/](https://www.themiamiproject.org/participant/research-participation/covid-19/)or use the short url [bit.ly/MP-Covid19](https://bit.ly/MP-Covid19) for easy sharing.  


Let me know if you have any questions and I'll do my best to respond to them here. Feel free to DM me if you don't want your question to be shared publicly.,As a researcher, could you share any information regarding SCI and immune response? Assuming one doesn't have any underlying issues such as a UTI, do SCI patients have "weaker" immune systems?The Spread of COVID-19 & SCI,This is great thanks for sharing!The Spread of COVID-19 & SCI,I'm pretty sure I have a UTI. Is the best course of action to get antibiotics, or would that compromise my immune system further to the virus?,I'm not a practitioner (MD, DO, PA, PT, etc) and therefore cannot give medical advice. Your best bet is to speak to a medical professional, preferably via telehealth. In the meantime, the Spinal Cord Injury Model Systems has a factsheet on "[Urinary Tract Infection and Spinal Cord Injury](https://msktc.org/sci/factsheets/urinary-tract-infection)".The Spread of COVID-19 & SCI,Thanks so very much for this. I've been through a lot in the 40 years since my injury and I have to say that COVID-19 worries me the most.,I cannot say I have the breadth of your experience, but I too think that COVID-19 has serious implications for persons with SCI. Especially due to the respiratory targets of the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes COVID-19 disease.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
C6 Quad Intro/Youtube,I’m subscriber number💯woot! Buddy,you need a lapel mic. 

Also, do you know about Cole & Charisma’s channel?     
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCA5Zfb-OOm7eDHHa8iu9izQ,Ayyy! Thanks so much man! I’m still trying to work my audio out! I know it doesn’t sound the best! 


Yes I subscribe and watch them! Their content is awesome! Do you have a channel? I have found it pretty therapeutic to create one! Pushes me to try new thingsPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Today I walked.,C1/C2 incomplete and walking. Welcome to the club. You now have to keep going. Every. Single. Day. 

Every day go just a little bit further. The sooner you keep at it, the better. You will be exhausted but it will be worth it.Today I walked.,Congrats!!!!!! I'm at my desk at work and starting to tear up with excitement for you! I remember learning to walk again at 28. It is one of the greatest accomplishments in my life. 

Keep hammering!Today I walked.,As a C5 incomplete this is amazing to see. Congratulations!Today I walked.,I'm not someone who understands this but I'm really happy for you. Congratulations!!!Today I walked.,Great news mate.. So happy for you.. Just ensure someone is around when you are walking until you get really stable.. Don't take any risk at the moment alone.. Good luck and all the best..Today I walked.,T6 incomplete.  I know how you feel.  It’s a HUGE deal that only you really understand.  How long have you been working on it?

June 18 will be 2 years in the chair for me and I’ve been fighting it the entire time.  I can drag myself around on a walker for 5 to 15 minutes (depending on the spasms and pain levels).  Ive gotten a couple steps with a Cain once or twice and like you, it felt like everything.

Good Job! Keep up the fight.✊🏼🦽,I was able to stand up by myself and just stay upright on my two feet after approx 3 months.

I've been working on it ever since. Progressing slowly. For the last six months or so I've been seeing a physiotherapist three times a week, walking on threadmill, in stairs, in corridors etc. (always with some sort of support, be it the physiotherapist or some walking aid)

And like you, it's my spasms which are the greatest challenge. I've got more than enough strength (I'm able to mobilize enough strength to jump off the ground). But the crazy clonus and intense rigidity from my abdomen and legs makes it almost impossible to not just fall with every step unless I use a walker or crutches.

So you can imagine the feeling of achievement from walking without any walking aid by myself for a longer distance for the first time 😁Today I walked.,Congrats!!Today I walked.,That's awesome! My husband is C5/C6 incomplete so I totally get your excitement! I hope your spasms continue to be kind to you - I understand how big of a hurdle that can be.Today I walked.,Congratulations!! I’m a T-6 incomplete at about a year out just praying that I can get to where you areToday I walked.,C4/5 walking incomplete since 07. Congrats! That's got to feel amazing! 

I was lucky to have been able to start walking independently 7 months post injury. 13 years later and I can walk around almost the whole day if needed. Nothing happened overnight but I just wanted to encourage you to keep going!Today I walked.,Incredible, happy for youToday I walked.,Way to go!Today I walked.,I’m so happy for you!Today I walked.,Amazing x great news. Sending gratz from Scotland xxToday I walked.,Congratulations! It must feel so amazing and like a dream come true, best wishes for continued recoveryToday I walked.,Well F#$king done nothing else need said.Today I walked.,👍👍👍👍Today I walked.,As a complete, I am so envious. But that aside, congrats!  Here's to more gains!Today I walked.,Man, that's awesome!! Congrats!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Tarlov Cyst,Hey! So I have 2 herniated discs and a Tarlov cyst as well. I fractured my L4 a few years ago. My main symptoms were pain, and overtime weakness and numbness. Mine is smaller than your SO’s (1.1cm) and My surgeon at Hopkins agrees that it’s not time for surgery yet. We are not sure what’s causing what as well sadly.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Treatment for ED,C7-C8 complete for 11 years. I've tried the pills with little to no response, so I tried Trimix injections they work great but are about $170 bucks for about 30 injections. 
Honestly in the end I cant feel it anyway so I worked on my oral game and bought her some new toys been happily married for about 9 yrs now....,[deleted],For me my trimix is 80$ and lasts longer than the needles they send with it. But it changed my sex game tremendously. Went from being able to keep an erection for 5min to 2 hrs lol. And yes see a urologist having to cath you should be seeing one anywayTreatment for ED,27 C2 C5/6 incomplete, and I've not been dealing with my injury as long as you but I deal with ED. It's different for everyone, but I've never had it solved - I just found ways to defuse a lot of the awkwardness around it and past the first few months, it really stopped being an issue for me in terms of actual impact.

It was still a thing, but I just learnt to perform in other ways and honestly, if you're open with it I've found that mostly it's not too much of an issue.

There are also vaccum constriction devices and stuff but honestly I've never felt it necessary.Treatment for ED,Would you consider a penis implant?  I tried everything and finally discovered them and found a surgeon.  I was terrified and kept canceling the operation at the last minute.  Finally, he called me up and we talked for about 15 minutes and he basically said, “look, your 40 years old and from here on out, if you were completely healthy, you’d still be gradually losing your erection. I’ve done many thousands of these and not a single patient regretted it.”  

He was right. It’s fucking amazing and every woman I’ve been with has LOVED it.  

I did an AMA (with pictures) a few years ago so you can look through my post history for it.,Urologist say this is by far the best option for ED but nobody wants to do it. I def will be checking into it more but trimix works wonders for me!Treatment for ED,27 S2-S4 incomplete. Been just over a year and honestly I don't even think about stuff like that anymore or have any urges plus I have zero feeling in the whole region along with complete urethra distraction to boot. I'm married almost 4 years now and we used to be very active before my accident and now we obviously aren't but it hasn't really affected our relationship. We don't do other things and I don't have the ability to get a reflex erection anymore.Treatment for ED,I don't know if you've tried it or are able to get it on prescription, but Vardenafil (Levitra) works very well for me when Sildenafil (Viagra) basically did nothing. I don't precisely know your situation, but if you haven't tried this before just reply asking me to elaborate and I will.Treatment for ED,C5 incomplete here that uses Viagra. It’s incredible!Treatment for ED,I am a T11-L3 income and older than you but I have had the same issues. I am only a year out and it weighs on me tremendously. Yes, my oral and otherwise game is on point, but there is some part of me that really misses regular intercourse.,T5 complete. It took me years to figure all this out. After I found trimix and the tens unit to ejaculate. I was damn near back to normal as far as a sex life goes. Add in the intimate rider and it’s even closer to normal! See  your urologist I wish they taught this stuff in rehab. At least they didn’t when I when I was there.Treatment for ED,Majority of SCI patients have low testosterone. Ask to be tested. Once I was on testosterone for a few weeks I began having morning erections. Then reflex erections followed so it's much more manageable when you want to have sex . It also improves libido , energy , depression so might be worth a try. If you add Cialis to the equation your sure to get erections.Treatment for ED,if you have a high injury (rather than an L injury) ED medication (of SOME type) is likely to work. Get your doc to give you some viagra/cialis/etc samples to *start*.

I would think your GP can probably give you the meds, probably don't even need to involve the urologist yet. Only caveat is that those meds are expensive and rarely covered under health plans.

Without even trying any meds it's far too early to give up. Good luck my man.Treatment for ED,( 22m) c-5 high functioning quad
I'm coming up on 2 years since my injury and have dealt with this as well. I get my prescription at Costco and its 35 bucks for 30 pills. No insurance needed which is a steal compared to CVS who wanted to charge 250 for 30 pills. I would talk to other doctors for more options as well.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Stuck rear wheel,Is it greased up? Mine get like that sometimes but it’s usually due to needing some grease or WD-40 on the quick release pins. Especially in cold weather.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Social Security recipients who don’t usually file tax returns will automatically get $1,200 payments, Treasury says in reversal,[Check the facts](https://www.irs.gov/coronavirus)Social Security recipients who don’t usually file tax returns will automatically get $1,200 payments, Treasury says in reversal,>... automatically...

buuut

> People who typically don’t file a tax return will need to file a simple tax return to receive one of the payments, the IRS said in a new guidance issued this week. That includes low-income taxpayers, senior citizens, Social Security recipients, some veterans and individuals with disabilities who are otherwise not required to file a tax return.

Strange. They already know your address if you’re receiving SSDI payments.,Yeah it's very silly if it's not automatically done. They know exactly how much I make because they pay me and they know exactly how they pay me because they do it every month.Social Security recipients who don’t usually file tax returns will automatically get $1,200 payments, Treasury says in reversal,PRESS RELEASES

Social Security Recipients Will Automatically Receive Economic Impact Payments

April 1, 2020

WASHINGTON – The U.S. Department of the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service today announced that Social Security beneficiaries who are not typically required to file tax returns will not need to file an abbreviated tax return to receive an Economic Impact Payment. Instead, payments will be automatically deposited into their bank accounts. 

[https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm967](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm967)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Wheelchair Tech Research Survey,Very interesting, could you keep me updated with your progress? I love this idea!Wheelchair Tech Research Survey,For sure it's interesting; dealing with a pretty good wound on the tailbone right now. Keep us posted!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
How to get your wheelchair stuck,[mulch](https://i.imgur.com/wOWOu5v.jpg)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
How to get the level of injury next to your screen name?,If you're using new reddit, head over to community options on the sidebar to the right, and look for the flair section,Thank you!How to get the level of injury next to your screen name?,Go to “https://www.reddit.com/r/spinalcordinjuries” in a browser. 

In the side bar on the right, [click the edit button next to your name.](https://i.imgur.com/DS7oDpL.jpg),Thanks! I was feeling left out.,Thanks I was wondering how to do that too ;-)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I need some light boot suggestions,I have an incomplete t4-3 which left me with a very bad foot drop on the right side. I wear these boots (https://www.colehaan.com/2.zerogrand-city-boot-black-leather/C25557.html) instead of my afo and they provide me with enough support to walk around town with a cane. The mix of stability, comfort and flexibility of the boot is just the right mix. While I would not recommend them for extreme conditions they suit me just fine for moderate wintery conditions and walking about town.I need some light boot suggestions,You can use a splint that can be hidden inside the shoes + if you will not use splints you must choose a shoes with high neck !!I need some light boot suggestions,They arent light but brahma makes a high top steal toe shoe you can find at walmart. Cheap and since u use wheelchair they will last a while. They helped my dropfoot quite a lot,Not in a chair anymore luckily. Just walk with a cane and trip a lot now.I need some light boot suggestions,Do you not wear an AFO?,I have one but I hate it.I need some light boot suggestions,No one recommended you get an afo? Ankle foot orthosis, my right toe would drag without it.,Yup they did. It just ends up hurting my leg.I need some light boot suggestions,Xtratuf,Bless youPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Disability and Pandemic/Disaster Preparedness,A few tips here:

1. Catheters can be reused. Yes, seriously. After use give it a good rinse with hot water inside and out, and then store it in a bottle of rubbing alcohol. Shake it off before you use it next time. I've used a single catheter for months on end without a single UTI.
2. Meds: talk to your primary doctor now. If you get UTIs frequently, ask for an Rx for antibiotics to keep on hand. Get 90 day supplies of meds. I'm a primary care physician and have already done this for all of my SCI patients.,That’s awesome to know. Can you keep storing it in the same bottle of alcohol? The alcohol won’t get exhausted quickly? 

And thank you. I did reach out to my GP about my hyprex.Disability and Pandemic/Disaster Preparedness,It’s been on my mind for sure. I order 90 days worth of catheters at a time and don’t reuse but if it came to it you CAN reuse catheters as long as you are extra careful (there’s some good YouTube videos that show how to clean/sterilize them). I did it for years when I couldn’t afford to buy them fresh. It’s stressful for sure! Hang in there.Disability and Pandemic/Disaster Preparedness,32, C3-C7 incomplete  
Same here. I have two different nerve pain medications, one for spasticity, and I'm on opioid therapy, which is hard enough to get on a good day. I panicked last week and attempted to order my medications a little early (less than a week) and was denied due to insurance.  


I'll send a message to my doctor's office to see if they know what the plan would be. I'd ask my pharmacy but I'm not fully certain they would give me a good answer.  


I hope you don't have to go without your medications and medical supplies. I know how important these are to be able to live some semblance of a life.,Right? I’ve been through something similar before when I had lost my medication. My insurance wouldn’t budge though, and I ended up having to pay an absurd out-of-pocket pricetag for a week’s supply until it could be filled. My insurance only covers 30day supplies of my meds, which I think is a bit absurd. What would happen if the scenario gets more extreme. People should be able to get an extra month’s supply of medicine in times like these. Insurance makes it nearly impossible to stockpile any kind of meds for emergency situations. 

I called my catheter company the other day to see if they had any sort of protocol for the pandemic, and they don’t. They told me to wait until the end of may when I can order again. I keep hoping that deliveries will still be available then.Disability and Pandemic/Disaster Preparedness,I just got directed to this FDA website that shows a list of drugs that are experiencing shortages: 

https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/drugshortages/default.cfm 

You can explore estimated availability, shortage duration, and reasons for the shortage.  As the world supply chain starts getting more disrupted, this website might start becoming important for people like us.,Thank you for sending this very important resource. I checked it and amy medicine is luckily not in a shortage right now. But who knows how long that will last for? I will be sure to check up on it weekly. Thjs whole thing has been quite stressful.Disability and Pandemic/Disaster Preparedness,Also, how’s everyone holding up, in general?Disability and Pandemic/Disaster Preparedness,Hey my husband has catheters that don’t work for him. He’s an L2 incomplete.. I’m not sure on the number but I think they’re 150.... the medical company wouldn’t let me return them.,That sucks. Insurance companies don’t give a rats ass about people. I’m surprised that the medical supply company wouldn’t accept returns. I once had to return a whole supply because they were the wrong gage.Disability and Pandemic/Disaster Preparedness,I need a certain med to stay alive (kind of like a type 1 diabetic needing insulin) so I'm definitely thinking a lot about this.   
  I'm torn between wanting to order 6 months extra and not wanting to be a hoarder that takes meds away from other people who need it.      I'm compromising by having 1 month extra meds and checking for med shortages everyday.     
It's certainly scary times.Disability and Pandemic/Disaster Preparedness,I’ve had a couple of severe UTI’s in the past, which makes me nervous about reusing them. However, you’re right. Desperate times call for desperate needs. I’ll look at some youtube videos to see what people recommend. Hopefully it won’t come to that.

When was the last time you had to reuse catheters?Disability and Pandemic/Disaster Preparedness,Yeah. I can’t imagine what that must be like. I once heard about a woman who had a heart transplant and needed these very expensive meds to make sure her body didn’t reject it. She could only get them in 1 week amounts. She got the meds through fedex. A hurricane came through and stopped the delivery of her meds for a few days. I think she eneded up making it by going to a ER, but still. That’s a whole different level of stress.

I’m sorry you’re going through it. I’m sure the temptation is there to buy a 6 month supply, especially if you have the financial means to buy it. I guess that’s kind of a moral quandary: Do you buy an extra supply or do you buy a normal supply so that others aren’t affected by it? 

What’s your thinking on this?,I noticed that you are replying to your own post and not to the individual comments that you appear to be trying. Expand all comments on this post so you can see which comments you may have missed replying to.

Make sure you’re clicking on “reply“ directly underneath the comment you want to reply to. I can’t guess on what platform you’re using desktop/mobile web/mobile app.Disability and Pandemic/Disaster Preparedness,The us system is fucked. The Second World War brought the nhs and welfare state. I hope the us catches up after this wake up. 
It makes me sad listening to ppl stress about meds and pisssticks. 
We drew one of the shortest straws in the most affluent advanced civilisation on earth and America can’t pay for piss sticks for the crippled. It is criminal. 
Stay clean stay safe,Capitalism is a fuck,Yeah. It’s quite fucked, for a lot of people in the States.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
My experience with orgasm... I’ve been dying to know if others have the same!,I’m a c5 and started trying with a hitachi massager about a half year to a year post injury and had a similar situation to you where finally something sticky came out and I felt a release as good as a pre injury orgasm. my legs went ballistic but I wouldn’t spasm after masturbating. Nowadays I can get off with just my hand but use more handheld vibrators mainly pressed on like the taint to get off faster or go for a second or third or fourth time hahah as I’ve started to gain back the ability to control my core and be more in touch with like my bowels it really helps to flex my abs and imagine like the connection between the brain spine and prostate or just like taint/butthole. There was a period where jerking off would then cause my bowels to be loose and like any vibration to allow stuff to leak out like my alternating air mattress or bumpy car ride but I’ve gained back that control. I’m coming up on being two years post injury this summer.My experience with orgasm... I’ve been dying to know if others have the same!,How long does it take you?,It kind of varies. A handful of years ago a cougar I used to mess around with gave a hitachi and that was the big game changer! With that it only takes me a minute it’s or so. Unfortunately it doesn’t work every time. Recently I have t been able to for like a week or so. I can’t tell if it’s a medication thing or not... too much baclofen or something.My experience with orgasm... I’ve been dying to know if others have the same!,I'm seven months in and still have yet to figure my niche out, but a lot of these responses are giving me hope!,Keep at it! You’re at the same level as me. Do yourself a favor and get a hitachi magic wand! That is a game changer.My experience with orgasm... I’ve been dying to know if others have the same!,What's your injury level?  Definitely sounds familiar- that huge rush of endorphins post climax and the crazy-legs dance... I know I'm not the only quad out there that does that just to calm down the spasms for awhile.,I’m a T-6 para. So glad to hear that others have the same experience!My experience with orgasm... I’ve been dying to know if others have the same!,So I'm really funny talking about sex but I kinda experienced something a little similar. So it takes me forever and a day to come as well..but 1 time when I managed to get an ejaculation my toes jump out of this world.. it's funny to me when the doctors ask me to move my toes or feet and all you get is the act of them moving but that ejaculation did wonders on my toes, well just the left foot and mainly the big toe but I was floored. .lolMy experience with orgasm... I’ve been dying to know if others have the same!,Mine don’t feel as good as I remember them feeling tbh. But I get super spastic for a minute and then my muscles are super loose for awhile, so I’ll take it. I sleep a lot better afterwards lolMy experience with orgasm... I’ve been dying to know if others have the same!,Welcome to the club. At T-6 you just make the unfortunate cut-off above injury levels which generally require medical help to ejaculate. I am T-5, 6 and first ejaculation was three years post injury with a law school girlfriend. 
I too experience the spasms. If you can maintain your erection long enough, you have a good chance of being able to ejaculate during sex. I use the Tri-Mix Papavirine injection. I fathered 5 children that way. You do need to watch the Dysreflexia and blood pressure fluctuations, but for the most part it’s a great feeling both mental and physical. We are lucky!!My experience with orgasm... I’ve been dying to know if others have the same!,I think it’s cool it helps spasms. gives me a good reason to keep trying at leastMy experience with orgasm... I’ve been dying to know if others have the same!,Yup, basically the same thing that happens to me. My legs go crazy when I cum. I even nailed my wife in the head once with my knee as I usually cum in her mouth. My legs lose all muscle tone in them for an hour or two afterwards. It’s annoying because I use the tone for balance. And getting my pants back on. But totally worth it.My experience with orgasm... I’ve been dying to know if others have the same!,T5 complete here was never able to ejaculate with manual stimulation. But I never went super crazy trying either And never tried it with the trimix injections that I now use either. Instead I found the Miracle machine that is a tens unit with the attachments for electro sex. I now use this regularly, meaning couple times a week. As with most of the things talked about it seems it begins not to work if used to often. For anyone wondering there is a whole thread on it here. https://www.carecure.net/forum/sci-community-forums/relationships-sexuality/128849-electro-nut-busting. You do need to creat an account to view the relationship/sexuality thread FYI. 

As of for how my orgasm feels, I feel immediate relief I feel. Legs spasm like mad and then go dead. I’m thinking if I quit using this for like a month I may be able to rub one out. But this is super reliable if used once or twice a week. Works Flaccid even.  Just for something for you guys to try. Try coming in your standing it’s fucking amazing for me! And just cuz I’ve never been shy and warning this is very NSFW!  Here it is in action!

https://www.pornhub.com/view_video.php?viewkey=ph5e48d9dfa550e#1

No idea if that gets me in trouble on here lol.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
May I respectfully ask for some insight?,I’ll start off by saying I don’t really get offended by anything, so I’m not the best one to ask. I’m permanently banned from r/disability for voicing my apparently unflattering opinion that too many people in the disabled community have a stick up their ass. 

That said, I find the premise a tad cliche and boring. It depends on the circumstances. I mean, what is it that the villain is requesting the protagonist to do in exchange? I consider myself a rather moral and upstanding (ha!) person. I’m paralyzed from the chest down and use a wheelchair full time. I have for 21 years. I have a beautiful wife, a child, good job, I’m happy. So if his injury is not the focus of the protagonist’s life, he’s probably doing ok. With that being the case, if what this villain wants him to do is morally questionable, if he’s anything like me he’d just nope the fuck out. Having legs that work would be great, but not great enough to do some shady shit. Also, wasn’t that the basic drive for the main character in Avatar? You infiltrate the indigenous aliens and I’ll get your legs working again? Just doesn’t seem like a good enough incentive for how you described the character. They’d have to hate their life more.,This guy and I sound very similar, including the age of our injury, our family makeup and everything. I haven't been banned from that subreddit, but I will agree with the sentiment. My criticism of your premise comes in that legs don't matter, unless like the previous poster said, they can do some pretty amazing things.

If you want to shake things up, maybe provide a cure for basic mobilty that already involves some incredible prosthesis, but don't fail to address the more challenging parts of a spinal cord injury, plumbing issues. Those are my two cents. Keep us posted if your work makes it for public viewing and thanks for asking. Shows that you want your work to be top-notch.,> Also, wasn’t that the basic drive for the main character in Avatar? You infiltrate the indigenous aliens and I’ll get your legs working again? Just doesn’t seem like a good enough incentive for how you described the character. They’d have to hate their life more.

It's a YA novel, so the protag is working for the bad guy. He thinks he's making a project to win at an inventors competition, reality is that he's developing a world-controlling technology. When he finds out, he's going on the run because the bad guys erase people for a living and now he's put a target on his back.

You make a good point about Avatar - I don't remember too much negative feedback about that part of the story. Is it a trope? Sure, but so was the entire movie. Still made bank at the box office., > Also, wasn’t that the basic drive for the main character in Avatar?


Boredom? Nothing else (like relatives) keeping him on Earth? Curiosity? Exaggerated sense of duty? Performing one last service for his dead brother? The urge to be useful? Money?


The (definite) offer to get the SCI fixed came after taking a multi-year interstellar trip. I don't think that's what motivated him to take that trip in the first place.,I happen to agree with your unflattering opinion, for what it’s worth. Watch me get banned from a subreddit where I’ve never even commented 😂May I respectfully ask for some insight?,Having him overcome his challenge by adapting to it and growing as a person would be better.

Spinal cord injuries are not solved by taking medication. So I agree with you, they presumably don't mirror your own issues. Permanent disabilities have a tendency to affect a person at their core. They can be a very important part of a person's identity. This is not always a bad thing; in fact, I know loads of people with disabilities, myself included, who cherish that part of their identity. 

Check out Aaron Fotheringham's instagram. He's a WCMX rider - notice how he hashtags #thankyouspinabifida. His disability has propelled him into a career that he loves. He wouldn't have had that chance if he were able-bodied.

Obviously permanent injuries and disabilities are devastating and frustrating. But, it's also a played-out trope in media and stories to erase them with the "robotic leg gift." It's been done, it's kind of boring, and in some ways, erases the realities of wheelchair users.

You can, of course, write any story and any book you would like to. I'd personally find this an aggravating storyline from my perspective as a wheelchair user.,> You can, of course, write any story and any book you would like to. I'd personally find this an aggravating storyline from my perspective as a wheelchair user.

And that's why I'm asking ... if the entire storyline would be aggravating then I wouldn't want to pursue it. I'm not here to demand my readers like what I write about. So there's no way to handle it, just chuck it entirely, in your opinion?May I respectfully ask for some insight?,I get a little bummed out when I watch or read science fiction and they haven't discovered a cure for SCI.,Fair pointMay I respectfully ask for some insight?,Been in a chair for twenty years and I echo the others sentiments, that a cure is not the be and end all. Walking is over rated and you able bodied people tend to rate it very highly and wonder why I don't give a shit. The wheels are my life, they are part of me. They don't define me but they make up who I am. Removing them would remove part of me and that is not something to be taken lightly and definitely not something I would do shady shit for.

I don't find it disrespectful but I do find it a little shallow. There is far deeper meaning to he found in disability than the hope for a cure,> I don't find it disrespectful but I do find it a little shallow. There is far deeper meaning to he found in disability than the hope for a cure

That's an interesting insight; thank you for sharing that. May I ask - is that how you'd feel if you were fifteen or so? The protag is a teenager ... so I'm wondering how that might alter his perspective.May I respectfully ask for some insight?,Yeah I just find it kind of boring. I've been dealing with my injury for no where near as long as some of the other folks here, but even in the few years I've had it and been a wheelchair user it's pretty much changed how I view the world and myself.

Tbh, I've been asked a lot about cures and stuff because my friends are into scifi and ppl might hate me for saying this but I'd prefer the world was more accessible / ppl weren't assholes. Obvs there are issues and it's not desirable to have an SCI but I'm not sure if I'd take bionics over my wheelchair and my SCI.

It seems way more interesting to have a nuanced character response to SCI rather than a magic cure imo. I also have disorders I take meds for, but taking meds for say - my pain, or anxiety or whatever is not at all comparable to radically altering your life with the ability to walk again, and some ppl (like me) wouldn't even really want that, so it's pretty boring and kind of annoying to read a surface level understanding of the psychology of SCI that falls into the same tropes as every other portrayal.,So, real talk: would it simply be better for me to drop the idea entirely, since it would come across as boring?May I respectfully ask for some insight?,[deleted],
Thanks for that. I'm leaning toward just letting the whole thing go and focus on another way to tell the story. It's not worth upsetting people.May I respectfully ask for some insight?,Personally, I’ve had a unique experience with my own legs. My injury was much longer ago than for most SCI patients, so I have issues with osteoporosis that I’m constantly mindful of. I have fractured my legs in one way or another my entire fucking life, so they’ve been nothing but an annoyance to me. Frankly, I’d personally be okay cutting them off at the knees (where most of my swelling and circulation issues are) and leaving it at that. 

All that being said, I don’t think I’d give much of a crap being offered the chance to walk again. 

Maybe a super chair that can navigate any inconvenience wheelchair users face while still being super lightweight? That would be neat.

I’d much rather have full control of my plumbing and the ability to fit into a tiny bathroom stall to go if I needed without anyone’s help. 

I’d rather have full sensation back so “getting there” doesn’t take an age and a half because my sensation down there isn’t *gone* but also fairly reduced. 

Then again, this year marks 27 years for me. My view may be skewed by the fact that this is basically all I’ve ever known since I was 7. Maybe fresher injuries, or worse injuries would jump at the chance. I just don’t know. Everyone is different. Last year I discovered in therapy that I still hold on to quite a bit of rage and deep grief regarding my disability than I ever figured I felt. Your character’s inner world could well be more interesting and relatable to the wheelchair-bound than the “here you get your legs back” aspect that doesn’t even ring that relevant to me.,
Thanks for that. I'm leaning toward just letting the whole thing go and focus on another way to tell the story. It's not worth upsetting people.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Wheelchair Research Survey,Completed. Thank you, and best wishes.Wheelchair Research Survey,Done! Best of luck, and please keep us updated. It sounds really interesting.Wheelchair Research Survey,Done, hope it helps!Wheelchair Research Survey,Done, best of luck with it!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Adobe Photoshop tips,[What about this?](https://glassouse.com/#home) It is significantly more precise than any head trackers I've used.,I use [Natural Point](https://www.naturalpoint.com/smartnav/) navigation which allows me to place a sticker on a hat or glasses and an infrared light follows my head motion. To click, I dwell on something. I don’t like the idea of using something where I have to put the clicking system in my mouth because we all know how things that touch your mouth for long periods of time get.Adobe Photoshop tips,I use [this trackball mouse](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B002OOWB3O/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_api_i_voMFEb1837058) for everything on my computer. I use photoshop for fun from time to time and the ball works really well, but it can take a while when I have to drag or trace something as I have to use both this and my laptop’s trackpad. For simply moving the cursor it works great though so if you have another way of clicking it may be pretty useful.Adobe Photoshop tips,What kind of things take longer?

You can record actions on Photoshop and automate sequences of tasks.

Also Dragon naturally speaking might be more precise than what you use now?,I use Dragon Professional. I dual run NatPoint and Dragon. Thanks for the tips on Photoshop.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Tips, tricks, and adaptive equipment from a C5/C6 complete chick 😊👌🏻,This is great! May be helpful to consider cross posting to r/occupationaltherapy as we are always on the lookout for new tips and tricks. Thank you so much for sharing!,Yes I really appreciate these posts because it helps me collect ideas for my patients with real world reviews,Seconded!,Oh sure!Tips, tricks, and adaptive equipment from a C5/C6 complete chick 😊👌🏻,Great tools and information. Thank you for sharing.Tips, tricks, and adaptive equipment from a C5/C6 complete chick 😊👌🏻,Tip: make sure your head is elevated above your camelbak, especially in bed, and especially for those folks who can’t physically move away from the straw.,Good point! The one I listed has a rubber stopper that stops the flow when you stop drinking; you have to bite down with your teeth to get a drink, so it doesn’t really spell anywhere, but that’s still a good tip :-)Tips, tricks, and adaptive equipment from a C5/C6 complete chick 😊👌🏻,Thank you for posting this! Just shared with some fellow OTs ☺️Tips, tricks, and adaptive equipment from a C5/C6 complete chick 😊👌🏻,If you can flex your wrist, I recommend the “Cripper” reacher. An OT wound need to do the measurements to fit it, but it’s been invaluable for me. 

I also use hemostats all over the house and keep one in my bag. They are like tweezers that lock closed.  They’re sometimes called Kelly clamps.,This. Is. Amazing. I had no idea something like the cripper existed, practically my wildest dreams come true. I will definitely look into getting fitted for one. Thank you so much for sharing!Tips, tricks, and adaptive equipment from a C5/C6 complete chick 😊👌🏻,Very comprehensive list. Didn’t know many of these things existed. Thanks for taking the time to post this to other SCI folk. :)Tips, tricks, and adaptive equipment from a C5/C6 complete chick 😊👌🏻,Another C5 complete here. This is so similar to my list! As I kept reading down, I was hoping to see something that I don’t use. Unfortunately, we have the exact same list. I’d love to discuss more about what you use your echo for. PM me if interested. Thanks!Tips, tricks, and adaptive equipment from a C5/C6 complete chick 😊👌🏻,Yes!!Tips, tricks, and adaptive equipment from a C5/C6 complete chick 😊👌🏻,Been a paraplegic for almost 5 years now. Where were you and this post 4 years ago 😫,lol I’ve only been a quad for a year now, so I was still oblivious and walking around back then. I’m glad you found it helpful!Tips, tricks, and adaptive equipment from a C5/C6 complete chick 😊👌🏻,Do you have other examples of "smart" products you use regularly?,Sorry this reply is so late, I use the lightbulbs, the plugs, and the TV that I listed above. That’s about it. Oh! I also have a fan that I can control through my phone, but the last time we looked for it to buy another one the Amazon provider had stopped selling it. What about you?Tips, tricks, and adaptive equipment from a C5/C6 complete chick 😊👌🏻,Ahhhh ok. Sorry it was so recent, i was still recovering from my car accident then. Im 25 now but i still feel like im adjusting every day. 
My fine motor skills with my fingers and hands have always been troubling for me. They have movement hust  no complete movement, so eating with a fork and spoon as well as typing have always been a little difficult for me. Ive used a talking device for typing and have tried to find good utensils for eating, so that adaptive fork would be super useful for me.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Risks with starting to stand again?,Ok first I need to say PLEASE don’t worry. If your doctor is confident this is what you should do, you should trust them. And a standing frame won’t take you to full standing in the first session. You’ll start slowly until you can handle being back at that angle up uprightness.

Second, it can never hurt to ask your doctor to double check where your bone density is at right now. They can do a full 3D scan (advisable every so often anyway) and confirm to you that your legs are up for the body weight. 

If you trust your doctor, then statistically you have nothing to worry about!Risks with starting to stand again?,-You could pass out.  Your circulatory system is not used to having to pump blood all the way up your full height.  So your blood could pool down to your lower body, i.e. leave your brain, causing you to get lightheaded and possibly pass out.  Wearing an abdominal binder could help mitigate this.  You should start small with the standing frame, only ten minutes or so the first few days then increasing ten minutes every few days after that.  It would be best to have someone there the first week, really, so if you start to pass out you wouldn't be alone and they could help you get back into your chair pronto and you wouldn't be at risk of falling.

For me, my signs of imminent passing out (pre-lightheaded-ness) are muscles weakness, sudden fatigue, and hot flashes. YMMV.

-Weakened bones, possibility of breaks.  I've been injured 20 years and broke my ankle just last year while I was in my standing frame.  I leaned far over to one side then straightened back up, rolling my ankle in the process and it just snapped.  Do you know the state of your bones?  When was the last time you got a bone density scan?  If it's been more than a few years you'll want to go to your doc and get one before you do any standing.  If you also don't do anything to keep your bones strong, i.e. take calcium, do range of motion...you definitely should get a bone scan first.Risks with starting to stand again?,My biggest issue when I first started standing was my Blood Pressure wasn't being regulated well enough, so I had to be really vigilant with monitoring it. But I agree with the other guy, and if your doctor gives the OK, go for it!Risks with starting to stand again?,Good for you! Standing is good for you, for me helps with spasms so much! Other than passing out I don’t know iod any. Ted socks and abdominal binder will help. Other than that maybe just try to have someone  there with ya.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Today was my 19th anniversary,I remember someone -- John Hockenberry, I think, the paraplegic reporter -- talking about his anniversary, the one when his life was half without injury, half with.  He called it his "hinge point", iirc.  I often wonder how I'm going to feel with I reach, then surpass my own hinge point.  When I think about it, it feels like I'm going to have some sort of identity flip, you know?  Or maybe I won't, maybe that's just anxiety talking.

However I end up feeling, I'm kind of stunned that I've made it this far (20 years this year).  Congrats to you, too.Today was my 19th anniversary,Happy celebration of life! In April it will be four years for me since the date of my injury. It’s interesting the way I look at life. I’m so very thankful for all that I have. I have a wonderful life. Of course it’s not the same. I am very fortunate for my family, my friends, in the healthcare team that helps keep me going. Thank you for sharing a little bit of your story with us. It’s added encouragement to press on word and upward. I hope to live a long life, and be able to see that point where half my life is post injury. The first year post injury I would worry that my life will be shorter because of the injury. Now I just live my life one day at a time. Living it to the fullest. Many blessings to you my friend.Today was my 19th anniversary,You are right: Every year is another gift. I passed my 39th anniversary on November 17th of last year. 

Keep on truckin'!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I’m 27 and a C2 quadriplegic. I don’t want to die.,This is a scary time for everyone, but I can’t imagine what it’s like to be in your position. I give you so much credit for having the strength to talk about your fears so openly. I can’t do much for ya, but I’d be happy to listen or just bullshit for distraction. Feel free to DM me.I’m 27 and a C2 quadriplegic. I don’t want to die.,C1 and on a ventilator all I have been doing is staying in my room I haven't left I keep everything pretty clean and much like everyone is saying just watch who you keep around you try to avoid going out I know all of my appointments got canceled,Yeah, thanks for empathizing. Good luck with your quarantine.I’m 27 and a C2 quadriplegic. I don’t want to die.,Usually I troll people for whining but to you I truly am sorry and feel free to continue to reach out because what you described does sound completely bat shit scary. Holler,Thanks for understanding. If I didn’t have the ventilator I wouldn’t be so scared but I don’t have any idea how bad things could get.I’m 27 and a C2 quadriplegic. I don’t want to die.,It’s a scary time for all of us. I fractured C2, C3, and C4. I am very grateful to not be on a ventilator. In addition I am an incomplete quad. That brings a whole host of different issues. I’m also a nurse. It’s very important that you isolate yourself, and ensure that anyone that comes in contact with you is washing their hands. If they have any signs of illness, ask them not to visit. If necessary, have them wear a face mask. Facemasks, other than N95 masks, or not full proof. They will help prevent respiratory droplets from their mouth being spread into your space. Hang in there. Try not to listen to the news. This is very serious, but listening to the news will get you more worried about it than you need to be. If you need to talk, please continue to post here. Don’t hesitate to DM me. Happy to chat with you. Sending positive vibes your way.,You say if necessary have them wear a face mask, what would make it necessary or not? Would that default to everyone wears a mask?I’m 27 and a C2 quadriplegic. I don’t want to die.,Ughh! So frightening! But I was actually joking about this with someone yesterday. God forbid  you get infected and get sick enough with COVID-19 that you have to go to the hospital, at least you can BYOV (bring your own ventilator)! But seriously, I hope you stay healthy and avoid infection and that everyone you’re in physical contact with has your safety top of mind and is limiting their risks as much as possible too.I’m 27 and a C2 quadriplegic. I don’t want to die.,I feel ya man. You know to voice your concern to all your caregiver(s). Are they quarantine as well?I’m 27 and a C2 quadriplegic. I don’t want to die.,I'm not on vent, but I've got some breathing issues from my incomplete C2 (also 27 btw) and ngl this did cross my mind.,Hey, thanks for replying and good luck.I’m 27 and a C2 quadriplegic. I don’t want to die.,I feel you man. I haven't been able to sleep in days because of the stress.I’m 27 and a C2 quadriplegic. I don’t want to die.,C5 6 years. 
The one thing that we cripples are good at, is A been isolated from the general population, and B understanding that time runs differently for us. For example 6 months to a year of maybe not doing so much really isn’t that much of a sacrifice considering sometimes we really aren’t doing very much! 
I never go on that fucking tube anyway!
If you are prepared to be isolated from the general public. Don’t make any stupid quarantine breaking decisions with your friends and family. You will be fine. If you’re smart and you keep ahead of it you will be fine. Keep yourself clean keep yourself out of hospital.

It’s going to go through the general population in about six To 12 months. Once that has happened and enough people have had it and recovered from it will become less and less transmutable through the population. Hopefully by which time there may be a vaccine. But until then we cannot be too careful. My doctor friend said to me “absolutely no contact with the virus for you”
Make no  mistake this is a serious disease and it does affect anybody with young people and it’s indiscriminate as to who it takes. The only appropriate action for us is to avoid and wait out the storm. My life got put on hold six years ago, I’m not about to let some fucking bug take the rest of it. 
I’m happy to sacrifice six months or a year to let this thing blow over. You should all think about doing the same,Haha alright I like your perspective. I can outlast this shit.I’m 27 and a C2 quadriplegic. I don’t want to die.,Good to know I'm not the only one here ready to dropkick anybody who is sick that comes across to me.I’m 27 and a C2 quadriplegic. I don’t want to die.,How did u become paralyzed?,It was a car accident ten years ago.I’m 27 and a C2 quadriplegic. I don’t want to die.,How are you now, OP?,Eh, okay. Still paralyzed so no change there haha, but coronavirus is still something hard to get out of my mind.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
FES?,C5 complete here. I went to Craig Hospital after my accident in a wave. Four years ago. I used FES bike while I was there and it help me gain a lot of muscle back. No function, just muscle. It also got my endorphins up which was something I wasn’t used to. I now live out of Colorado and it’s difficult to find a FES bike. I wish I knew a better way.,This company makes a more affordable one www.myolyn.comFES?,Yo! Been doing FES since my injury, and it seeeeems like it's helping regain some control/function in my weaker (right) side. I am only able to do it 1-2/week, but I think it helped significantly over the past couple of months. I'm about 7 months into my injury (incomplete) and have a lot of function in my left side but my right side has been lagging significantly and the spasms are beginning to get really bad which can affect my FES pretty negatively,Do you own an FES bike?FES?,PT here...I’ve used it with patients a bunch and find it beneficial! I’ve seen it improve function for some, and reduce atrophy with others. I highly recommend it!FES?,I used it on some weak wrist muscles at the beginning of my injury, and it has allowed me to regain wrist extension, however as far as I understand it, it just strengthen those muscles so I could use them again.FES?,I am working on an open source machine for FES. It senses your movements and you can teach it repetitive movements and when to activate specific muscles during this movement (4 channels).

I personally have a progressive condition, and I use it to fight back so I can continue doing all the things I used to do (such as running). I still sprint at 25 km/h.

The aim here is to enable fun training that would otherwise be impossible. I was thinking others could have great training with this.

Components for the current version was ordered from Amazon (150£) and assembled in an evening. I am a computer programmer, and the majority of the work has been related to the program responsible for learning how to translate movement into muscle activation.

Sounds interesting?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
A friend has just been injured,If you have flu/covid, do not visit... she may have difficulty breathing on her own and be on a ventilator or have a tracheotomy, so you visiting might place her at danger. 

Neck injuries are difficult to assess but if she can move her arms and legs, it means it's an incomplete injury, which means she still has connection from her brain to her spinal cord and that's great news. She'll have a chance to do physical therapy and maybe her condition can improve. 

Other than that, there's nothing I or anyone can tell you since each injury is different. Just keep being her friend and visit when you are healthy or call. PM me if you have specific questions.,Thanks.  She's breathing and talking on her own, so that's a good sign.  I'm not going anywhere near her though until I'm 100% in the clear, and even then I'll be masking up!  That is going to be a while, so I'm hoping to get someone to set up a video chat so I can talk to her.

Thanks again.  I just feel so awful being stuck away from her and unable to even talk to her :\\A friend has just been injured,It sounds like she may have central cord syndrome. I applaud your choice to put her health and safety first.,I have CCS, and yes it sounds likely to be it. When I was first injured I could lift my legs pretty easily, lift my arms with great difficulty, and my hands didn't work at all.

If it is CCS, then it has one of the best prognoses of any spinal cord injury. After a few weeks when spinal shock goes away she will have a better idea as to the extent of the injury. After that it is possible to see significant recovery in the first 1-2 years, but it depends how bad the initial injury is.,I agree, it sounds like central cord syndrome. There was a man at my rehab when I was there that could walk around fine but his arms were completely paralyzed.A friend has just been injured,If it just happened Monday, she may still have spinal shock. In the early weeks after a spinal cord injury, the body is responding to the initial trauma. It will take some time to know what impact then injury had. The doctors should be able to provide more information based on MRIs and clinical assessments. 

If you are not well, whether it is COVID-19 or just a cold, then you are doing the smart and kind thing to stay away. Reach out by phone, voice chat, etc, but it is best not to expose your friend to contagions. 

 Best luck to her!A friend has just been injured,Sending good vibes to you and your friendPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Sexual Needs,I feel your frustration. I’m a C3 incomplete quad. I can get erect, but cannot get off for anything. What does happen is weird nerve sensations and bilateral leg spasms with each stroke. For the past 4 years I’ve been fortunate to have some physical intimacy... making out and cuddling. I can count on one hand the number of ejaculations that I’ve had. The effort to get to them causes my body spasticity to go crazy, and therefore not worth it. I’ve always been a very sexual person. Masterbating was a 2 or 3 times a day thing, and then sex almost daily. I choose to meditate now. I choose transendental meditation, twice a day for 20 minutes. It helps alleviate some of the anxiety and sadness I feel over the loss of sex. It also helps me to tolerate my pain better. It doesn’t take it away the weird and ever unpredictable pain that the SCI causes, but it helps me manage the pain better.,This sounds a bit like my situation. Can you feel any pleasure in your penis at all, or at least tell what your body thinks feels good? If so, I may have some advice. As I said in a previous comment, it took me 10 years, but I found a fairly reliable way to cum.Sexual Needs,I'm female. Ways I've found that you might want to explore would be nipple play, and mental masturbation.  The first takes exploration, the second takes patience and practice.  With either you won't get that "explosion" feeling like you'd get pre-injury, but you can get some pretty good feelings going on.  Mental masturbation involves creating intensely detailed fantasies in your head...personally, I find that writing erotica helps with this.  It can get pretty hot.

Some guys swear by prostate stimulation, perhaps someone here can tell you about that better than I...,I've never heard of mental masturbation. Where did you learn about it? Any tips ? :) I'll take anything at this point!,Have you ever published any of your writings?Sexual Needs,I’m almost 4 months post injury (c7) and I can’t feel anything the couple of times I’ve had sex with my husband. I’ve tried a vibrator and no luck.  I was paralyzed totally from the chest down but I’m slowly getting more sensation in my chest, like it’s going downwards. I’m hoping eventually I’ll regain sensation in the clit area 😪,I sure hope it works out for you soon! You deserve to enjoy thatSexual Needs,I'm with you man. I'm 7 months in and just getting to the point where I'm just gonna give up. Have tried "P Spot" simulation, but haven't worked out the kinks yet, so no-go yet.,Keep trying new things. It took me almost 10 years before I learned how to get off. I now cum at least once a week. Multiple times a week depending on the situation. My wife and I fucked every day multiple times a day for the first 3+ years we were together. Then we decided to have a kid. Between her job, my job, and the toddler we don’t get the chance as often as we used to. My wife is pretty good at making sure I at least get to cum once a week. We might have sex more often than that. It’s just that I only cum about as third as often as we have sex.Sexual Needs,I’m glad someone mentioned the mental pleasuring, because it’s always hard to really explain how I get off.... and everything that was mentioned is very true for me. Visual aid helps with the imagination as wellSexual Needs,Good luck! Most dudes I know end up going to a sex worker.,What do sex workers know then we don't?Sexual Needs,Ok so I just copy pasted my comments from the thread above I had no luck until this. Noticed some ladies in this thread I have absolutely no idea if this will work   I do know I’ve seen able bodied women use the pads on themselves. 

T5 complete here was never able to ejaculate with manual stimulation. But I never went super crazy trying either And never tried it with the trimix injections that I now use either. Instead I found the Miracle machine that is a tens unit with the attachments for electro sex. I now use this regularly, meaning couple times a week. As with most of the things talked about it seems it begins not to work if used to often. For anyone wondering there is a whole thread on it here. https://www.carecure.net/forum/sci-community-forums/relationships-sexuality/128849-electro-nut-busting. You do need to creat an account to view the relationship/sexuality thread FYI.

As of for how my orgasm feels, I feel immediate relief I feel. Legs spasm like mad and then go dead. I’m thinking if I quit using this for like a month I may be able to rub one out. But this is super reliable if used once or twice a week. Works Flaccid even.  Just for something for you guys to try. Try coming in your standing it’s fucking amazing for me! And just cuz I’ve never been shy and warning this is very NSFW!  Here it is in action!

https://www.pornhub.com/view_video.php?viewkey=ph5e48d9dfa550e#1

No idea if that gets me in trouble on here lol.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
The Coronavirus and spinal cord injury,Thanks there's some great info in hereThe Coronavirus and spinal cord injury,Thank you for sharing this!The Coronavirus and spinal cord injury,I just found my old incentive spirometer and have been chugging away.

Thanks for the excellent post.

Breathe on, fellow citizens!The Coronavirus and spinal cord injury,Wow thanksPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Are quadriplegics considered immunocompromised?,I’m not sure about our immune system‘s, but I know our breathing is compromised for sure. Can’t clear your lungs or have trouble too and you have a pneumonia, that’s a big problem.

I would wager that we are higher risk than the general population in comparative age,Yeah that’s what I was figuring. I imagine the risk just gets worse for every level you go higher. Like a C4 is going to be more at risk than a C6 etcAre quadriplegics considered immunocompromised?,I think every individual with an SCI above T4 should consider himself immunocompromised. I study this stuff. The research shows that if your autonomic system is affected, your immune function is affected. Stay safe out there. Be careful.Are quadriplegics considered immunocompromised?,My husband is a quad, incomplete. His doctor said he's not any more susceptible to catching the virus, but he is at greater risk of secondary respiratory infections because of decreased mobility and a weaker cough. Pneumonia is what's been killing people with this virus. My husband got the pneumonia vaccine last year and his doc said that will help if he does catch it.,His doctor is completely wrong about the vaccine helping fight COVID19.,The pneumonia vaccines help protect from pneumococcal pneumonia such as Streptococcus Pneumoniae—one type of bacteria that causes pneumonia. COVID19 is a virus and thus causes viral pneumonia. It is not affected or tempered by the pneumonia vaccine.Are quadriplegics considered immunocompromised?,I don’t know about being immunocompromised but your cough is a lot weaker and Corona virus has a bat of terrible pneumonia that affects a lot of older / immocompromised individuals. So stay safe!Are quadriplegics considered immunocompromised?,This study used a mouse model, but I wouldn't be surprised if something similar was true for people as well. I consider myself immunocompromised to err on the side of caution. 

[https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20832407](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20832407)Are quadriplegics considered immunocompromised?,> more at risk if I were to come down with it?

Maybe, but not due to being immunocompromised (white blood cell counts can be checked for if you are worried about that).

I've had more than one bout of pneumonia, and they were all on the ... more affected side of my body. Maybe because that side of the lung is less ventilated due to scoliosis and lack of muscle strength?Are quadriplegics considered immunocompromised?,My husband is C5 and he’s been self isolating for about a week now. When anyone comes in we make them wash their hands and I sanitize surfaces.,I have trouble keeping people off of their phones. If you think about it, a cell phone is the dirtiest thing we own probably. every time someone comes into my house, besides just having them wash their hands, I also make them Clorox their phone front back and sides. stay safe out there!Are quadriplegics considered immunocompromised?,I was told I'm not immunocompromised, but that my breathing could make things real difficult if I happened to catch it. So I'm essentially self isolating.Are quadriplegics considered immunocompromised?,https://www.christopherreeve.org/blog/life-after-paralysis/the-fluPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Will my back pain go away?,>para at T11 Asia A not sure if complete or incomplete

If you are ASIA A, then you are complete, friend.  

Since everyone is different, there is no way to know if your back pain will go away.  However, anecdotally, I can tell you mine did improve. There's an adjustment period to sitting in a chair, so over time it will settle in. Also, your body is probably still healing - depending on how recent. So, all that... to answer your question: probably will get better.,Thanks 😊 I was just curious if this will be something I just suffer through forever or improvement is ahead.,I’m Asia A and I’m incomplete L1, walker and parttime chair user since my last surgery in Nov 19..

On the pain issue, no one can tell as every injury is different, but I know from experience (3 spinal surgeries now) there will be a lot of swelling at the injury site which can take 2 years to subside. Don’t loose hope just yet..there is a lot of healing still to go.Will my back pain go away?,T-4,5 ASIA B here. Give it time. I'm 5 years out, no idea how long it has been for you, and it has become tolerable. I have nerve pain and there are no medicines to stop that. First 6 months are going to be hell. But you'll learn to tolerate it. I had a few contusions in my head due to my accident and I'd fall asleep relatively faster as soon as I'd close my eyes after my injury. Also the nerve pain, the constant feeling that my foot is on fire and constant prickling sensation. I couldn't sleep the first few months, I'd wake up in the middle of the night and start touching my feet. And couldn't sit for extended time in my wheelchair also. Half an hour sitting would give me back pain. Five years later, I work full time now and sit for more than 12 hours. That includes 2-3 hours of travel by car. It pains sometimes, but it's not that much. Keep yourself distracted and you'll be good.,Thanks for the reply. Hopefully it improves - my hardware is still healing so they could be it.Will my back pain go away?,My SCI occurred from L3-L4 about six years ago. Initially, I had lower back pain that was helped with pain meds (along with nerve pain in legs that was not helped by pain meds). Once the shock in my body finally calmed down, many things started improving, including the lower back pain. It took about six months for the shock to abate and my doctor told me this was a normal time frame. Another improvement from this was that the exhaustion went away and that’s when I started feeling much better overall. I think I also had to get used to sitting in the wheelchair every day. And my body took some time to heal. 

A friend who has had two SCIs told me something soon after my injury that really helped me get through the first year. He said just hang on through the first year and do everything to keep your mood positive. After the first year, everything will seem tremendously better. I held on to this advice and it really helped me to get through the first year. Hang in there.,I forgot to mention that the one thing that really helped me with pain in general and especially with the nerve pain was marijuana and also CBD. I’m lucky that I live in Colorado where marijuana is legal so I have easy to it. Throughout my returns to Craig Hospital in the first three years for re-evaluation, they told me that many SCI patients told them that marijuana helped much more with pain than the narcotic pain meds. For me this was very true. In fact, it is what helped me to stop using pain meds altogether and I still use it as needed.Will my back pain go away?,T5 complete herr.
I got My injury almost exactly a year ago and im still improving pain-wise. 
First six months i could hardly move from searing pain. Now i only take pain meds maybe once a week.Will my back pain go away?,I’m a C3, incomplete quadriplegic. The four year anniversary date of the accident is approaching in April. I have muscle spasticity and nerve pain from my shoulders down. The first year was the worst. It does improve. My body has adjusted to the pain. Most days I don’t really pay much attention to it. The worst part for me is the nerve and sensation pain. It seems as though I go through periods of time where it is really horrible. By that I mean my feet, will have sensations that feel like they are sitting in a fire pit. Then will turn around and feel like they are solid blocks of ice. I was maxed out on oral gabapentin, and that left me with crazy brain fog. I’m now on Lyrica 150 mg twice a day. For spinal cord injuries you can go up to 300 mg twice a day. I find that the 150 twice a day helps me for the most part. Unfortunately the answer I get from most of my physicians when something crazy happens, or I have increased nerve and sensation pain, is that they tell me I have a spinal cord injury. There’s no method to the madness. 

Saying everything that I just said, I want you to know that it does get better. You find ways coping, hopefully healthy versus destructive, and your body adjusts to its new normal. Every one of us on this subreddit group have similarities regardless of our injuries, and then we have our own experience of how our bodies react to our individual injuries. Hang in there my friend. I’m not sure where you live, but there are wonderful support groups in many areas. Some of them will allow you to participate online, or by phone. In addition this sub seems to be a group that provides wonderful support and information.,You basically described my injury pain trajectory. 
C5 incomplete quad 
At first when the pain came it’s quite overwhelming and upsetting. 
As others have said time heals both physically and mentally. I used to be jacked up on pregabyln/Lycra but for the same reasons fucked it off. That’s not to say it’s not necessary for as long as you want to need it. 
Sure my feet set on fire but honestly 6 years in. It’s not nearly as bothersome as the genuine panic it stirred up in the beginning. 
Think of it like a cut or a bruise as kid, that first toe stub or bee sting. Pain and panic, pain and fear.
Now think how you react after years and years of stubbing banging tripping poking falling etc... 
Pain, no fear or panic 

Although if I bang my toe now least I don’t feel it 😂
Trust me mate you’ll be fine. It does  takes time.Will my back pain go away?,I'm an L1 Asia C injure December of 2018. I have a fussion of T12-L3. I had constant back pain for the first month or so but Tylenol helped stave that off. Once I took off my TLSO (back brace) at the 12 week mark I had regular back pain for a few more months. I still have a lot of pain some days but most of the time it's fine now. I wish you the best if luck with your recovery and adjustment.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I Stood.,Just brought tears of joy to my eyes, CONGRATS!,Thank you! :)I Stood.,Congrats!!! Don't give up!I Stood.,It took me over a year to learn to walk again! It was a super hard road. You got this!I Stood.,I know that incredible feeling, this made my day. Congrats and keep pushing!!I Stood.,Congrats you legendI Stood.,Absolutely fantastic! You should be proud. All the best luck in future progress.I Stood.,Amazing! Congratulations! Keep on keeping on!I Stood.,yayyyy congratulations 🖤🖤🖤I Stood.,C5 Asia d. I remember my pt getting me to stand after 3 weeks of lying down and just sitting up would cause orthostatic hypotension aka passing out. 

My weak side was definitely slumped but standing there, unsure if I was even standing on my own. But I looked over and my friend was smiling ear to ear giving me a thumbs up and I knew what was happening. I stood for about 10 seconds but that memory will be one of the memories that Flash before my eyes before dying. 

Good job and keep up the hard work. It pays off.I Stood.,That is awesome . I think the next time you do this maybe you should set your phone somewhere and record so that you can see yourself doing this. Reason being is so that you can look at yourself from another perspective to see how much upper body strength you are using to push down on the walker to assist yourself when standing.  State the time and date and the possible percentage the ratio of upper body strength and lower body strength .

Then when you look back in a couple of months you will be able to see your improvements, and the smile on your face when you view that video will be well worth it. Also ask your therapist if she/he would state their assessment on video too. Splice all the videos together into one.

I'm very happy for you. Keep up the awesome work and please keep us updated!

*- C1-C2 central cord injury in 95.*I Stood.,Good effort and congratulations!I Stood.,Hell yeah! Keep pushing it. Super stoked for you!I Stood.,Tears of happiness!

> November

Your injury is so fresh. Remember this day anytime you get frustrated with your therapy. Progress is an almost imperceptibly slow and steady climb. I’m so happy for you AND your therapists.I Stood.,Hey dude, congratulations.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Having AD you lie down,The blood/fluids that build up in your legs over the day start pumping back up to your torso. Takes a bit for your heart/body to adjust. Thats my theory anyway.Having AD you lie down,I get it from time to time too.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Breakthrough for spinal injuries as Aberdeen university experts find new way to repair nerves,If I had a dime for every story like this people have sent me over the years... I’d have at least a few dollars! Getting rats to move! Cool, but hasn’t yet translated into helping people with SCI lead more independent and healthy lives. Can’t wait for well meaning friends to send this to me and then get disappointed and confused when I don’t get super excited.,Nailed it!,Yup.Breakthrough for spinal injuries as Aberdeen university experts find new way to repair nerves,Wake me again when they can actually fix an SCI in a rat. No, not "improvements" after an SCI, but "good as a brand new rat".,I hear ya.,someday I hope :/Breakthrough for spinal injuries as Aberdeen university experts find new way to repair nerves,But how did the rats get those spinal injuries? /sBreakthrough for spinal injuries as Aberdeen university experts find new way to repair nerves,These articles provide insight that offer hope in the future. It’s 2020 right now and given the rate of medical advancements we’ll see some form of major break through in the next 10-20 years is my guess.,But I don't want to wait that long to walk.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Looking for phone mount,Check out modularhose.com.Looking for phone mount,I am currently using 
https://smile.amazon.com/gp/product/B0072LAT4C/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_search_asin_title?ie=UTF8&psc=1
It works great. This is for a tablet, but the manufacturer makes phone brackets that fit on here too
https://smile.amazon.com/Universal-Holder-iPhone-Galaxy-Retail/dp/B004IMCVW6/ref=sr_1_11?crid=362IO4YW7DB3G&keywords=arkon+phone+mount&qid=1584049836&s=electronics&sprefix=Arkon+%2Celectronics%2C147&sr=1-11Looking for phone mount,This one works nice for me. [With gooseneck](https://smile.amazon.com/Phone-Holder-Bed-Gooseneck-Mount/dp/B07PLF1KMB/ref=sr_1_3?crid=1576EO5TKFBXW&dchild=1&keywords=phone+holder+for+wheelchair&qid=1584109870&sprefix=phone+holder+for+wh%2Caps%2C166&sr=8-3) it can be a bit wobbly when I film with my phone. But with this strong clamp, the entire unit isn't going anywhere!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Paying for your kids college education after becoming quadriplegic... any experience with scholarships or grants?,I’m in Arkansas and the Spinal Cord Commission office in our area was a godsend for just about everything we needed. If you have one nearby or something similar they may be able to point you in the right direction. 


Also, tell your daughter apply to every scholarship she possibly can (through the school or otherwise), even if she doesn’t meet the qualifications they have listed. If no one who meets the qualifications, they’ll sometimes give the scholarship to the best candidate. Some of the smaller scholarships don’t get many applicants because it’s such a small amount of money, but those small scholarships will can add up to a decent amount!

She can also apply to be a student worker so she can make a little money to put towards her degree if needed. The schedules tend to be more flexible than a regular job, and it’s great for networking!

She may also qualify for Pell Grants depending on your income.

I know you wanted your kids to graduate debt-free, but life throws you curve balls sometimes. Try not to beat yourself up too much! You sound like a great parent, student loans or not.,Well said. As parents we want to do anything for our children but you have to prioritize your own financial security over your kids college. It sucks but it’s what any financial advisor would tell you. SCI is expensive, no matter how good your insurance is. You need to save for things SCI will throw you.,Shit I got a $2000/term scholarship because I was the only one who bothered to apply for it.Paying for your kids college education after becoming quadriplegic... any experience with scholarships or grants?,Contact the Christopher Reeves foundation requesting resources. They might be able to help point you in the right direction.Paying for your kids college education after becoming quadriplegic... any experience with scholarships or grants?,https://www.scholarships.com/financial-aid/college-scholarships/scholarship-directory/physical-disabilities/disabled-parent,Thank youPaying for your kids college education after becoming quadriplegic... any experience with scholarships or grants?,https://www.theclassroom.com/benefits-for-children-of-disabled-parents-for-college-13591852.html,Thank youPaying for your kids college education after becoming quadriplegic... any experience with scholarships or grants?,Attempted [Vocational Rehabilitation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vocational_rehabilitation)? They paid for my college. Their goal: to help individuals into the workforce!,Thank you. I’m more concerned about paying for my daughters education. Voc Rehab is a wonderful resource to help get individuals back into the workforce. I am fortunate to have a nursing degree and license. I also have two master degrees. I’m fortunate to be able to work. Unfortunately we have depleted our saving since the accident 4 years ago. I currently make about 60% less than pre-accident. Thankful that it is more than I’d make on SSI. My work comp case is pending litigation. It’s been 4 years, and the company’s attorneys will drag it out as long as they can.

I appreciate your response.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
My self-acceptance experiment,Signed and shared. I hope you get all the signatures you need. Good luck.,Thank you so much!My self-acceptance experiment,Are they deporting her just because she is disabled or is there another reason to it?,Hi, check here the immigration instructions A4.10.1 paraplegia and severe autoimmune disease (like lupus) are listed. I'm taking a stand for all people that have any of the conditions listed, my petition is to review this eugenic policy. https://www.immigration.govt.nz/opsmanual/#46506.htmPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Receiving anal sex & paraplegia,I'm female.  This is my experience and advice.

I'm 20 years post.  I no longer do anal play.  I've found that my butt just can't take it anymore without consequences, those being: loss of sphincter tone (as you mentioned); tissues becoming more delicate, resulting in external injury (splitting); increased incontinence.  

However, if you're younger/your injury is younger, you probably won't have as many issues, so I say have fun while you can.  Just please, be careful and don't use big toys, and if your partner is on the bigger side, go SLOW and use tons of lube.

You say that you will lose tactile sensation with a partner.  I don't know if that's always true; with me, I often keep a hand/fingers down where the action is happening so I know what's going on (plus it's a turn on), so that way you'd still be able to feel what's going on.  

As far as the other stuff...my recommendation is to be very open and honest with your partner about your concerns, and about how your body is different than most other bodies.  Tell them you need to start/go slow.  Tell them you'd be OK with a faster pace for a minute or two, but then you'd need them to stop for a minute so you can see how your body is reacting (or however you want to do that).  All your concerns are valid, and you shouldn't compromise your health or safety just to sexually please anyone else, or because you feel uncomfortable talking about it.,Thanks for your input and I will certainly bear that good advice and your experiences in mind, in my case it's 34 years post accident. I guess it's probably something I can only resolve one way or another by careful experimentation. Good tip on retaining some tactile feedback with the hand placement too :)Receiving anal sex & paraplegia,Regarding autonomic dyslexia... 

Are you susceptible to it and do you know it when it occurs?
It’s common that even EMS crews & skilled nursing facilities don’t know what it is or have never experienced it firsthand. I have (or had) a little credit card-sized laminated card explaining what it is, why it happens, why it’s life-threatening and first aid procedures for the inexperienced. I also have a tube of nitroglycerin paste handy if I can’t correct the cause promptly. I also make sure each new primary doctor I get is well-versed in it in case I need them to back me up in the face of ignorance. 

Good luck, in the butt :),Yeah, i have a page from a SCI management book I flash to any new doctor (other than the ones at the Spinal Unit) and it's definitely something a lot have not heard of, let alone experienced. It also seems to scare a bunch of them (the description alone, not presentation of any symptoms)! Not prone to full-on AD, though I'm always wary of situations that might trigger one. Every time it has occurred has been bladder related due to voiding issues resulting in distension. Always keep some nitro pills close by or on my person though just in case!

Thanks :)Receiving anal sex & paraplegia,I actually just got a so called "P Spot" stimulator, but haven't had a chance to try it out yet (I mean, it just got here today ;)).  I am a little anxious, a little worried but pretty excited to see how it goes.  It will be my first time ever really exploring back there, so I've been trying to find posts just like these, so thank you!

&#x200B;

Just trying to enjoy sexual activities again and trying to find any way that works for me.  I'm about 7 months in from T6/7 Incomplete with a little bit of sensation coming back, but I'm like a sexually frustrated rhino over here, and I'm getting crazy impatient with the lack of "release",I'm glad it was a timely post for you and hope you have fun with your new toy. Certainly for me, anal play is the most stimulating sexual activity (below injury level at least), so hopefully it is suitably stimulating for you too. Let us know how you get on :)Receiving anal sex & paraplegia,[deleted],Thanks for the advice, that's reassuring to hear! I've taken on some pretty big dildos too without any issues and likewise not noticed anything long term regarding tightness, but It's just that final step of relinquishing control to someone else that gives me pause I guess :)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Ladies...crotch chafing,Hello there, I do get chafing as I have plenty of allergies and therefore overly sensitive skin. 

I use [https://www.amazon.com/Calmm%C3%A9-Anti-Chafe-Cream/dp/B07F82SKCZ](https://www.amazon.com/Calmm%C3%A9-Anti-Chafe-Cream/dp/B07F82SKCZ). When you can you should try giving yourself a break from underwear and pads. At least at night when you can, try sleeping commando, as this is great for our hoo-ha. The skin needs to breathe and so does our vag. I would also try wearing 100% natural fibre underwear and this is not that easy to find these days. Try to find underwear that is either made by cotton or bamboo that allows your skin to breath and hence helps reduce the amount of chafing. Maybe also try some pads that are handmade from natural fibers too.

There are also period undies that you could try, but they are made from man-made fibres.  

 [https://www.modibodi.com/?gclid=EAIaIQobChMIw6yRrviO6AIVTyQrCh2GvwCGEAAYASAAEgIGFvD\_BwE&gclsrc=aw.ds](https://www.modibodi.com/?gclid=EAIaIQobChMIw6yRrviO6AIVTyQrCh2GvwCGEAAYASAAEgIGFvD_BwE&gclsrc=aw.ds)

So I personally would alternate between these modibodi with wearing underwear from natural fibres and a pad that you can slip in which is made from bamboo, like these. 

[https://www.amazon.com/Wegreeco-Reusable-Sanitary-Pattern-Menstrual/dp/B077JMB8F3/ref=sr\_1\_14?keywords=reusable+menstrual+pads&qid=1583810316&sr=8-14](https://www.amazon.com/Wegreeco-Reusable-Sanitary-Pattern-Menstrual/dp/B077JMB8F3/ref=sr_1_14?keywords=reusable+menstrual+pads&qid=1583810316&sr=8-14)

These ones have cool prints too.,Thank you so much! This is really helpful. I do sleep commando, so there’s a start lol. I’ll definitely look into these.Ladies...crotch chafing,It likely is irritation from the pads. Here's some info:

https://www.healthline.com/health/rashes-from-pads,Thank you!,Thank you!Ladies...crotch chafing,Something else you may want to consider: the pads that you wear are designed for wicking away moisture -- great for when you have leaks, but not so great when you have to wear them constantly because they wick away ALL moisture, which can leave your vulva in general quite dry.  This can lead to the delicate skin cracking or splitting, which creates small wounds that can look like cuts.

My gynecologist suggested that I use a thin coating of Aquaphor (basically vaseline) on the vulva a couple times a day, which will help keep moisture in.Ladies...crotch chafing,Yes a good start. I also go commando when ever I can. Come back and let me know how you go please. Also please remember that chafing, rashes and other little annoying issues are common.Ladies...crotch chafing,Thank you!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Dating?,[deleted],A lot of cute girls on Tinder.. I only started my account today, but I’ve been at it an hour and only got two matches (one of them was a dud). I’m not a bad looking dude either! At least according to some people. I’ve never tried Bumble, has that worked better for you compared to Tinder?Dating?,I use Tinder and Hinge. My bio just says “East to tie up, hard to run away” Then I describe how I’m a para and injured and a bit about myself. Have lots of matches — no dates yet but I’m only three months post and needed time to kill in rehab / hospital. Best of luck! :),You must have a really engaging profile. I suck at this stuff.Dating?,I've had a lot of success on Okcupid over the years (though the site owners have tweaked it in recent years in many detrimental ways), but you have to play the long game, expect a handful of genuine matches/messages exchanges measured over a period of months. With only a few of those actually likely to progress to the next stage of meeting in person. I think in my 'best' year, I maybe had four partners from there. 

&#x200B;

I personally don't advertise the wheelchair until after we've established a rapport and it looks as if we're going to meet for real, then I'll say and give them a genuine, no-guilt chance to opt out. I would say 85-90% are completely cool with the fact.,I would say don't advertise it but also don't intentionally hide it. I found my current GF on tinder,on my profile I made sure it was clear I was on a wheelchair, I had a couple of pics with the chair and a joke about it in the description(which turned out to be the reason she texted me)Dating?,Frankly, (mostly) gone are the days of going out to places to meet others. Not saying you can't, but so many people just opt to meet online these days - for good reason. It's a safe place, it's a bunch of people at your fingertips. Sure it's got its own issues, but online dating is so much easier.

OkCupid was a good hit for me.  I definitely had my share of dates, and most of them were fun. 

Match and EHarmony may be your best bets, IMHO. These sites really sing if you pay the monthly fee (and you should.  Pay sights have an inherent way of weeding out creeps).  I met my guy on Match, and we've been going strong a year and a half, with zero end in sight.

Be up front, honest, but not focused on your disability on your profile. Show it exists, but also show it's not who you are. I promise, people are out there that will see you, not your chair.  It will take time, effort (dating is a time sink, ya'll.) You'll have good dates. You'll have downright shitty ones.  Keep at it, keep an open mind, and don't settle.Dating?,My only advice using apps is don’t hide the fact that you’re in a chair on your profile. Put a couple pics. I tried that at first but then I ended up wasting time on people that would have just ignored my profile cause of the chair. Weed out the people who aren’t cool with it first that way you aren’t wasting time.,And also include pics of you doing "normal" things. Like driving a car, or cooking, or other totally normal, independent stuff. If someone has never met someone with a SCI, there's a huge chance they think you have a nurse full time or that you cant live a normal life (for example)Dating?,Tinder is very frustrating at times, best of luck to you,What would you recommend?Dating?,Try https://www.dating4disabled.com/
Or https://www.whispers4u.com/
I found the love of my life on one of them.,I tried these as well. It definitely brought a lot of devotees my way.  I would like to implore people to keep an open mind when talking with these people, but use caution: they are flakes. They ghost hard because their kink is "taboo".  If you can get one to be reasonable, you may just find a dev to be your thing.  But, if it's not your thing, know devs patrol those sites.Dating?,Honestly the same way you did before your accidentPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Tobacco – Nerve pain,Yes 100%. I quit smoking for a little bit and when I started again my nerve pain became increasingly worse. I asked my doctor about it and she said that tobacco could be a cause for the increase in nerve pain.Tobacco – Nerve pain,Nicotine is a powerful nerve toxin that damages your nerves. Smoking is not worth the extra pain..At least not for me.,I did not know that I chew tobacco quitting in the processTobacco – Nerve pain,Absolutely.  Wish it didn't because I used to enjoy a smoke with a drink every once in a while, but not anymore, because it sets my nerve pain on fire.Tobacco – Nerve pain,Whoa! That makes ao much sense! Im only a social smoker, but it makes a lot of sense that one begat the other...thanks for bringing this up!Tobacco – Nerve pain,Having a cigarette seems to make my spasticity increase and nerve pain stronger, but only for a few minutes usually. I'm generally back to normal by the time I finish smoking.Tobacco – Nerve pain,It really does it’s so weird! 
Sometime a big bender on the booze at the weekend does the same. 
Also on a side note, smoking is bad for normies, really bad for us cripples. Don’t add additional cripplnessTobacco – Nerve pain,I started smoking again when I got out of rehab and my nerve pain has gotten worse so maybe there’s something to itTobacco – Nerve pain,They told me it did. So I quit smoking. They lied. But, at least I quit smoking.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Traveling and No. 2,T8 complete with history of pressure sores. I take a cushioned seat with me to go over the toilet to protect me. All the chairs I have been offered travelling have not been suitable. Good luck.Traveling and No. 2,I pack and travel with a padded, raised toilet seat which I fasten to the toilet.

Pressure sores are not a problem until they are. Then they can wreck your life. No one wants to spend months in bed, hoping that a wound will close, that it won't escalate to osteomyelitis or worse, to sepsis. One slip and you can hit a hard surface and break down the tissue. Go onto [sci.rutgers.edu](https://sci.rutgers.edu) and read about how easy it is to start an ulcer. A recent study indicates that even small impacts to the skin break it down and make it prone to ulceration.

When you are young it's easy to develop habits which are not conducive to long-term health. For instance, you can make awkward transfers with bad positioning of your arms and get away with it. Then one day you tear a rotator-cuff and suddenly your transfers are much more difficult (and dangerous). If you can initially learn good habits your older self will thank you. I speak from experience (40 years in a chair). I was a "supercrip" and did everything to the max. I handcycled 15 miles every day, 30 miles on Fridays, made awkward transfers and "did the impossible." I suffer with aching shoulders which keep me up at night. Oh the things I'd say to my younger self!

Sure, you could transfer to a hard seat and trust that your bony prominences were safely out of danger. But if you make a mistake, the rest of the trip really won't matter that much to you. Treat yourself luxuriously; you deserve a padded seat and fewer worries.

Oh, before I end this tome, you can say "manual evacuation of the bowels after digital stimulation" if you want to discuss bowel care with a bit less, uh, messiness. :)

Good luck and best wishes.Traveling and No. 2,I’m a T12 complete para and I do just sit on the toilet. I have had pressure sores but it wasn’t from that. When I sit on the toilet my three bony sit bones don’t hit the seat, its more the area surrounding them. I think you’ll be ok but being cautious is VERY SMART. I would call ahead and see if they offer a commode chair, or maybe bring a removable padded toilet seat cover you can strap to the seat. Good luck!Traveling and No. 2,How long is your bowel program? I am a T8 and just use the toilet seat, even at home. I use Metamucil and enemeez and rarely am on the toilet more than 15 minutesTraveling and No. 2,I'm T10 complete too. I'm pretty light so my transfers may be easier than most but I haven't used a commode since the hospital. I transfer over and shift as far forward on the seat as I can for 'reach back room'. I wouldn't personally worry about pressure sores as the pointy bones of my ass sit inside the circumference of the seat. I would say like everything else give it a try at home a few times because every injury and every person is a little bit different. Maybe it won't work but at least then you'll know.Traveling and No. 2,T10 as well, I also use a squat a pooty to help give me easier access to the anus.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Are people with quadriplegia more vulnerable to the Corona Virus? What are your thoughts?,Yes, people don't actually die from the Corona virus but things like pneumonia which you catch because COVAD-19 has weakened your immune system. As a quad and not being able to cough  pneumonia can be life threatening.,Would those cough assist machines be of any use in this situation?Are people with quadriplegia more vulnerable to the Corona Virus? What are your thoughts?,I asked my husband's doctor about this. She said it's not that he's more vulnerable to contacting the virus but that he's much more susceptible to secondary respiratory infections like pneumonia, and that's what makes it deadly. He's had the pneumonia vaccine and we've been super diligent about washing our hands. Doc said that we're doing all the right things until more is known about the virus.Are people with quadriplegia more vulnerable to the Corona Virus? What are your thoughts?,Using catheters adds an additional entry point of infection. 
Keep clean and use those wet wipes pre pee.Are people with quadriplegia more vulnerable to the Corona Virus? What are your thoughts?,Why should I be more concerned about the coronavirus than pneumonia?

I am a C5 complete. My cough is weak, but I have gotten pneumonia before and it sucked but I didn’t die. Everyone is making out the coronavirus to be life or death (for quads), but if I have had pneumonia before (it obviously sucked and I was using my cough assist almost every hour) and didn’t die, why should I be more concerned about the coronavirus than pneumonia?Are people with quadriplegia more vulnerable to the Corona Virus? What are your thoughts?,Yes. Weakened immune system.,How is our immune system weakened?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Borderline personality disorder common in patients with chronic pain 27.5% in SCI,You forgot to post the link ;)Borderline personality disorder common in patients with chronic pain 27.5% in SCI,I think it's pretty fucked to diagnose someone with chronic pain with a personality disorder.

In fact I'd argue that if you had other conditions that are likely to be responsible for your symptoms then you don't exactly have a personality disorder.,A disorder just means it interferes with your life. Complications with my medications gave me GERD, and Barrett's Esophagus. Does that mean I don't have them because it was created by another medical condition? Of course not.

I can see the symptoms myself with people I interact with. There are absolutely times where I am a giant asshole, whether it is a bad pain day or tbi causing it, doesn't change how it interferes with my relationships. Thus it is a disorder.  


If it doesn't interfere with your life, than it is not a disorder. Having flare ups makes sense, and why they would consider labeling it borderline.Borderline personality disorder common in patients with chronic pain 27.5% in SCI,was your other personality suppose to copy and paste?Borderline personality disorder common in patients with chronic pain 27.5% in SCI,Oh we know this that's why I moody.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Has anyone else been in a gray area regarding their sci? How did you deal?,Unfortunately, no one can tell you anything because every SCI is different.

Your best course of action right now is to work heavily with your physical and occupational therapist. You should also talk with a therapist or counselor. One month isn't that long, and yes, there is a grieving process.

My husband is a C-something incomplete. We're about at the two year mark from his injury and things are still changing. He plays and reads with our toddler every day. They go on rides to the library and store. We're about to get hands controls for our vehicle and soon hope to switch from a power wheelchair to a manual chair.

There's still a lot he can't do. I'd be lying to you if I said it's easy. It's not. It's the hardest thing we've ever done. But it's easier with help. The "everyone trying to help you overcome it" are your support. Ask them to help watch your kids, take you to physical therapy, walk the dog, rearrange your apartment to be slightly more accessible, etc. 

If you don't already participate in a support group, there are some good ones on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/groups/1575256319434654/

It helps knowing others have gone through your situation and some of the people in these support groups are the most creative and innovative people I know.

Lastly, If you feel you are at risk of harming yourself or others please call:
National Suicide Prevention Lifeline - 800-273-8255
https://suicidepreventionlifeline.org/

If you are not at immediate risk of harming yourself or others but feel you need support or someone to talk to call:

The Crisis Hotline - 800-422-0009

SUICIDEPREVENTIONLIFELINE.ORG
Home
We can all help prevent suicide. The Lifeline provides 24/7, free and confidential support for people in distress, prevention and crisis resources for you or your loved ones, and best practices for professionals.,Try an E-fix chair. It's the best of both worlds. Power when you want, manual when you don't.Has anyone else been in a gray area regarding their sci? How did you deal?,> Instead, I'm just cycling deeper into depression.

It sounds like you need to get the depression treated by a professional. Not only because it is bad by itself, but because it will impede your ability to do rehab or explore legal options if it turns out that the surgery did go awry.Has anyone else been in a gray area regarding their sci? How did you deal?,I can relate to your struggle because I am also someone who was paralyzed fully from the waist down and told by doctors I’d be in a wheelchair forever but now 6yrs later I walk with a cane. I don’t want you to give up hope! Right now is so scary for you because the future is unknown and losing the use of our legs suddenly is a traumatic reality. Please be gentle with yourself and know that you will heal, nobody knows how much or how fast but you will heal in ways that are hard to fathom right now! I’m sending you so much love and strength because I have been where you are, wanting to be dead instead of dealing with my nightmare of a life. I promise it will get better!!!Has anyone else been in a gray area regarding their sci? How did you deal?,Pretty awful that the doctors didn't discover the hole for 2 years. You probably wouldn't have ended up paralyzed if they had discovered your problem right away.

&#x200B;

Have you considered suing anybody for medical malpractice?,Wouldn't be any point. My state has 2 year statute of limitations. I'm still in hospital. By the time I'm out, the time frame will be up,  and I can't go looking for a lawyer who will take this up. The only thing I can focus on are the parties who initially put me in this predicament.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
SCI Advice: Ultimate guide to hands,Great idea!SCI Advice: Ultimate guide to hands,[Here’s a great place to get gloves for quadriplegics](https://www.glovesforlife.com/)SCI Advice: Ultimate guide to hands,thank you so much this post is a fucking massive lifesaver for me. 3 months post injury and I have no idea what I’m doing this helps so much 🖤, of course I was surprised that no one has done this before I will update this post and I am looking at doing a podcast or something in the future to inform people with spinal cord injury and those withoutSCI Advice: Ultimate guide to hands, would love some input to help get this message outPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Ability to have orgasm,Same fam, I'm a little over one and a half years post accident and those feelings have subsided some but it's still a bitch. I am a t8 complete and can somewhat get an erection but I can not orgasm, not for lack of trying. I feel/ see a lot of the muscles spasming when I try but I think the lack of result is possibly medication based. Im on several meds but lexapro and baclofen can result in the inability to cum and im on both plus the spinal injury just makes it hard. It's a pretty common topic on here and some people have had some success with different approaches if you take a look through other posts you might find something that works.,[deleted],Have you tried EDEX for your erection? Aprostidil I think is the actual drug name. Its an injection directly in the shaft of the penis and it doenst work everytime for me but its the only thing that works over 80% of the timeAbility to have orgasm, [https://www.hotoctopuss.com/diverse-accessible-sex/erection-problems/](https://www.hotoctopuss.com/diverse-accessible-sex/erection-problems/)  these work like the hitachi but a fair bit cheaper and they've got better settings,That’s way more subtle than the hitachi (I call it “the karaoke microphone”).Ability to have orgasm,This was one of the biggest things that affected me mentally after my injury (T7 complete over 4 years ago). Not being able to walk was obviously first, and then this issue. And ya know, I have never really gotten over it. Idk how to. Ive been struggling with it ever since. Ive been able move on from not being able to play sports but not being able to ever orgasm during sex, ugh.....Even now I cant get over it. Im sorry if this didnt help at all, just how I feel about it.,It helps more than you know... it made me cry but it also helps to know I'm not alone. If you ever want to talk just reach outAbility to have orgasm,I've been wanting to post about this for a while, but I have an issue similar, but might be unique.  (I'm going to make a separate post about this for visibility in hopes that it helps someone else out)

First: I'm an L-1 incomplete, able to walk short distances without my cane, unable to get an erection and ended up getting a penis implant (HOLY SHIT HIGHLY RECOMMEND and I did an AMA that went viral several years ago. Even did several on-air phone interviews to TV and radio)  


I have zero feeling in my penis, but I have an area the size of a quarter beside my penis I have complete sensation (my luck of course). 

When I get aroused, I spontaneously "orgasm" and a small amount of semen will flow out barely (couldn't even make out with a girl without climaxing).  The orgasm is more like a strange feeling in my head that isn't really pleasant without any body sensation. 

Here's what fixed it:  I was a firefighter/paramedic for 20+ years (got drug tested OFTEN) and was always very straight-laced growing up. I NEVER did drugs of ANY kind and was firmly against cannabis.  I kept seeing SCI folks recommend weed to me and I was just completely against it (brainwashed).     Then my partner said she would try it with me if I would.   It was a few sessions before I discovered this, but one night I was fairly high and we started messing around.  I noticed immediately that I was HIGHLY aroused but I hadn't climaxed yet. 
Then we had sex and I was able to go and go! 

But then.. I had a MASSIVE orgasm that I FINALLY felt and it was MAGNIFICENT!  

It gets better... several years later, I tried my first psychedelic.  We made a mushroom tea and I'll be damned if I wasn't able to have MULTIPLE full-body, full ejaculatory orgasms.  

I've experimented with different psychedelics and have found that with lower doses, I'm able to explore not only my consciousness but my sexuality as well. Higher doses are for going DEEP within yourself and exploring your mind and not much sex goes on with those.  

I still have zero desire to try drugs that make you escape. I prefer psychedelics and use them as tools. 

I'm super curious if anyone else has had similar results and if anyone can explain why this works so well for me.,Where would a normal, straight-laced guy with normal straight-laced friends find these psychedelics?Ability to have orgasm,Hi there. There are lots of discussions about this on this sub, so you are absolutely not alone. Others will likely chime in here but I can also tag you on some posts if you’d like. 

Also I don’t think less sensation is normal sequelae of disuse. Maybe less urge, but not less sensation. Also some men have issues with low testosterone, so definitely get that checked if you haven’t already.Ability to have orgasm,Also if you haven’t, and you’re ok with it, give the Hitachi Magic Wand a try. If you have a partner you can also get attachments for it for your partner for extra fun. :),This.

I’m a 34yr old, male, T6 complete SCI para, going on 14+ years now since my injury.  I didn’t have a single orgasm for about 5 years after my injury until another SCI friend of time told me about using a vibrator.  LIFE CHANGER.  I bought the Hitachi Magic Wand and the first time I used it, I prob orgasmed within 15 seconds, no joke, despite not having any sensation down there (I guess it had been a while, lol).  For any you out there struggling to orgasm, try using a vibrator!  Everyone is different so by no means can I guarantee it will work for all, but I have a lot of SCI friends that have had good results with vibrators.

Two other things that have dramatically improved my sex life: (1) using penile injections (Tri-Mix or EDEX) instead of oral pills (e.g. Viagra, Cialis), especially for a complete SCI para like me (no sensation).  The pills were simply cutting my performances short.  We’re all different, so please do consult your urologist first.  (2) the Intimate Rider!! (YouTube it).  Boy was this a game changer, I only wish I would’ve gotten it much sooner.  It’s  a bit pricey but absolutely worth every penny.

Lastly, like anything in life, confidence in your own sexuality post SCI comes with time and practice.  The sooner you can get over the stigma of trying all the recommendations mentioned above and by others and start practicing, the better off you’ll be.  Over time you’ll start to take control of your sexual experiences and be more confident.  You just have to try things out and see what works for you.  Again, definitely consult your doctor on some of these, as some may having unique circumstances.

Hang in there, with time and practice, you will get better and more confident.Ability to have orgasm,I'm very incomplete t-10 I assume I can't get psychogenic erections it seems and zero nocturnal ones. I have a super high sex drive so it's like being a prisoner trapped in my mind. After some work and manual stimulation I get 80% erections and my orgasms are about 60%. I feel like the nerves that transmit thoughts to my penis are subdued and only after watching porn and manual can I make it work. Iv'e never had a girlfriend because most guys get aroused and touched then get wood I can't and fear embarrassment. I can walk,run an do stuff it's just my penile nerves is subdued a bit same as my lower extremities. I can feel my feet and my legs just not as sensitive ad say by arm area or neck. The worst part is porn abuse nothing really works anymore so i'm rebooting right now,iv'e done this before and it works,but the worst part is I will be alone forever and cant date despite people thinking im normal because I walk around and do stuff,play sports run etc..,Look into the EDEX injections and if that doesnt work consider a penile implant.Ability to have orgasm,I'm telling you I went years not having an erection except the occasional randoms that only stayed for a minute or two. Then i got EDEX and that changed instantly... you should try to get it brother even without a girlfriend at least you can know that it will work when you finally do find a girl. Or you can get a professional to help you out if you have the money. You'd be surprised how easy it is to get sex drugs approved by insurance.Ability to have orgasm,I'm a c-4 through c-6 incomplete. It took me over a year and half of trying to have an orgasm under I looked into the Ferticare vibrater which definitely did the job. It's just super expensive.,Prob with ferticare is that once the internal batteries die, it’s dead. I have a friend who has hacked into his and changed the batteries, but it takes a lot of work and dang it is expensive just to trash it otherwise.,I have one and it never workedPosted Question, Comment, Reply
LSD and Depression,psycehedelics have changed my life for the better. I became obsessed with learning everything I could about them and have read 12 books now.  

I wasn't a big drinker, but I was drinking higher gravity beers and just getting really buzzed every night.  

One night after a larger LSD dose, I poured one of my favorite craft beers (around 10% ABV) and it had this really weird taste.  I thought the beer was bad so I had my partner taste it and she said it was fine.  So I tried a different beer and it was the same thing. 

Told a psychonaut friend about it and he knew exactly the culprit.  Plant medicines were telling me that alcohol was poison and no good for me.  

I still enjoy beer, but I've not even had a buzz since then and that was about 3 years ago.  

Now, I make a low dose (1 gram or less) tea about once every 10-15 days and then I do larger trips every  3-4 months.  I do these solo with the intention of healing, grounding and connect with all living things. 

I've also become artistic (NEVER was before) with painting and photography, making terrariums, and little crafts.  

They've changed my life in the most magnificent, positive ways, healing traumas, and expanding my mind.  

I have some mild spasms in the beginning, but I think cannabis helps to calm them (and helps potentiate the psychedelic)LSD and Depression,I did schrooms a few times. It killed my addictions iPhone and games. It’s a n amazing experience not scary and you don’t feel “out of it” like heavy drinking or monged like mdma. 
Highly recommended regardless of depression cureLSD and Depression,Did you have any spasms?,Yes extremely bad spasms in my legs but i just mentally prepare that its going to happen and I've mostly gotten over it. I definitely don't concentrate on it anymore unless someone mentions the whole bed or couch is shakingLSD and Depression,it didnt cure anything but it did give me a better perspective. DMT gave me a crazier perspective

Also.. it did give me spasms so... use at own discretion.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Recreational drugs,I have out of control spasms on LSD and shrooms. I have neither decreased or increased spasms from cannabis.Recreational drugs,Same, they're the worst on lsd and shrooms, manageable on mdma. I've heard people taking baclofen before taking drugs, never tried it personally though.Recreational drugs,C5 completes here. Took shrooms three years after my injury and didn’t realize how much my legs would spasm. I figured I was having autonomic dysreflexia due to the poison in the magic mushrooms. Honestly, the spasms ruined my trip. I did LSD before my injury and enjoyed it, but I don’t think I want to do it if I’m going to spasm the whole time. If anyone finds a solution, please post it here.

I use cannabis every day and have been for the past two years. I’m actually on a tolerance break right now (on my third day) and my nerve pain has been acting up. Not sure if those two are correlated. My favorite recreational drug is Xanax because it completely knocks out my nerve pain and I love the feeling it gives me. Normally I take 1mg. Definitely very addicting and I wouldn’t recommend taking it more than twice a month. Would love to hear of other drugs that SCIs enjoy?Recreational drugs,Does your doctor ever drug test you for the Vicodin? Is he cool with the marijuana use?,It took years for me to find a VA Doctor that would prescribe me pain pills with my marijuana use but he made me get a medical marijuana card and after that he was fine with it.Recreational drugs,(D8 complete) Once I tried LSD I gave me too many spasms such as you and a few cold sweats, other than that the trip was good, do you experience any other fiscal problems that I should be aware of? im planning to take a full tab next month.,Not that i cant think of... definitely have a pool or cold shower available if you start overheating. I would recommend a trip sitter and telling them what to expect and have them read about autonomic dysriflexia so they can recognize if you need hospital attention. Dont be afraid of the hospital either if you meed to go they cant arrest you or share info with the cops.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Any fellow quadriplegic SCIs have impacted teeth removed?,I had mine removed 4 years ago after my SCI. Hurts like a bitch, but you get to have loads of ice cream later to relieve the pain.. That's the best part. Apart from that.. you don't really feel anything because your mouth is under anesthesia. Good luck! May I ask why are you getting your tooth or teeth removed ?,All right! So the pain is after?

And I am getting a molar (non-wisdom) removed. Kind of pushing another tooth out of its socket or whatever. Also thinking about getting one or two wisdom teeth removed.

Thank you so much! Out of curiosity I am c5. What level are you?Any fellow quadriplegic SCIs have impacted teeth removed?,Yes, the pain is after. Thank you anesthesia! I had one of my canines removed. It broke from the root due to the impact during my accident. Thank God I was wearing a helmet no other major injuries except my spine! :D I am a T-4 incomplete.Any fellow quadriplegic SCIs have impacted teeth removed?,C5/6, I had 6 wisdom teeth removed about 2 years post injury. I was given laughing gas and whatever numbing agent they used. They didn't want to put me out. I brought music to drown out anything else, I still bring music now any time I get a filling. It was a pretty short process with very little pain afterwards. During the procedure there's just pressure you feel, it's more mental than anything. I'm glad I only was given gas. I wouldn't worry much about getting it done. I assume the pain or discomfort is different for everyone, but I didn't even use any of the pain meds they gave me.Any fellow quadriplegic SCIs have impacted teeth removed?,Had a bunch removed - all the wisdom teeth impacted one another and it was fine for mePosted Question, Comment, Reply
Re-using catheters,Wash them in soap and hot water and put them in a paper bag ( like a school lunch bag) you can find this information on Google. 

Unfortunately some single use catheters simply aren't made for reuse and are impossible to steralize. The old school red rubber caths can be reused, but at the end of the day just if you are going to run out buy some inexpensive ones off the web. I use allegro medical and they have some fairly inexpensive caths that can get you by until your regular ones arrive.,>allegro medical

Can you buy without a prescription?Re-using catheters,People reuse all the time although it’s not the best option. As mentioned red rubber and plastic catheters can be cleaned and reused, but pre lubed ones shouldn’t be. The dry lube can only rehydrate once or twice and can cause damage to your urethra, like micro traumas that cause inflammation. There are countries that still believe old evidence and only cover 1 catheter a day, and even these don’t recommend reuse for more than a day Each.,At the start I was given 1 catheter a week.  I don't miss those days.Re-using catheters,I have a completely different catheter, it silicone, comes in a tube filled with water, so you take it out and put it back in the water after used, it lasts for about 6 monthsRe-using catheters,Oh yeah totally done that stuff, just how it goes when you're in a pinch. Sometimes stuff goes wrong and just gotta work with what you've got. If you get an infection you get an infection, better than kidney damage from holding on too long, or even just the indefinite discomfort.Re-using catheters,You have to pay to get supplies???

But yes, I have re-used, many times, without getting an UTI.,america ...,https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VYOjWnS4cMYRe-using catheters,Here’s my old routine when I was self cathing. A bit over the top but I have very in frequent UTIs so hopefully this inspires you.

1. At the end of the day, a small bundle of catheters that I used are  put in one hand, all facing the same way and rinsed under hot water inside and out so all the semi-dry lubricant is washed away.

2. Bundle is allowed to soak in a tall container (I used a tall, glass cylinder similar to what barbers keep their combs in) filled with your favorite anti-septic solution. I tried several different things like isopropyl alcohol, ethanol, hydrogen peroxide,  chlorhexidine.

3. At the end of the week, The bulk of the catheters are taken out, rinsed thoroughly and then I fill up a clean plastic container with hot, soapy water and use my hands to agitate the catheters back-and-forth so that water is thoroughly forced through them. I rinse with regular tapwater (you may want to rinse with some kind of deionized water), and holding them in one hand I would sling or whip them so as to force any water remaining inside the catheters out. 

4. Now that they’re as free as water as I can mechanically remove, I lay them out on a paper towel to air dry.

5. Finally, (this is the over the top part) I bought a ultraviolet sterilizer meant for manicure tools [very similar to this one](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B01AOJA858/) and I’d leave the catheters in there for any number of hours without experiencing any problems. Then I’d take them out as needed for the day. I’d throw them out and replace them with new ones if I saw scratches or deposits that I couldn’t remove.,We advise people if they have to reuse to heat catheters up in the microwave after rinsing to kill any bacteria, then store them in a new ziplock bag. Never heard the UV light trick, interesting!Re-using catheters,That’s shit. 
My cousin lives in Boston I nearly threw up when she said how much it costs to have a baby. 
I had my accident 
Ambulance to a n e 
Intensive spinal unit then... 
I spent 9 months in specialist spinal unit, 6 weeks in intensive care, 24/7 care, turned every 4 hours , physio, hydro  etc etc etc then 3 months in a hotel for disabled ppl before my release... 
by bill? 
ZERO
My care was epic 
The nhs is not perfect 
But it works
I’m a staunch believer in capitalism with a small c with taxes. I am a business owner still. There’s no better system so far. 
But government plays a BIG role in society
Education 
Law and order 
Welfare 
HEALTH CARE 
Heath care cannot be run for profit.,I was in intensive care for only a month and a half, shipped ASAP to rehab, sent home ASAP, got waaayyyy less care than you did and STILL had to pay a shit ton.  And I had insurance.  The older folks here have lived this way their entire lives and it's all they know.  They can't comprehend a system like yours. And they're told from right-wing media here how you guys are dying in the streets because you can't get the care you need with your awful socialized medicine.  I can sum it up for you though.  This country is owned by the mega-rich and they control us.  They divert our attention so we ignore their corruption.    Sorry to get on a political rant.. but it's really damn frustrating for folks with medical needs that our system is soooo broken.Re-using catheters,I was taught this as one of a few methods while in rehab after the injury. They were okay with me doing clean cath instead of sterile, so the washing with soap and water (I’ve always been nonlatex cath gang) was another method.

The methods:
- wash in soap and water
- Put it in a bowl and pour literally boiling water over it
- use iso alcohol but rinse thoroughly to avoid irritation
- could even keep them in a clean jar with boiling water and Castile soap, put the lid on it, use the next day.

I’ve heard stories that suggest not all SCI rehabs teach it. I have no idea why! Emergencies happen. This is suboptimal to a new sterile catheter every time, but it keeps you healthy.Re-using catheters,I knew a guy that licks his catheters to "lube them up" before inserting. Hasn't had a UTI in years...,Done this!!Re-using catheters,I HAVE USED THE SAME CATHETER FOR MONTHS AT A TIME AND NEVER  CLEANED IT. I HAVE NOT HAD A UTI FOR 8 YEARS.

But back in the day, before the new method, I would get a UTI every month for years. I tried every one of the washing techniques described and posted on every forum, but nothing worked. I was back and forth from doctor to doctor.

Eventually I was so lost that I called the spinal injury support center and asked for a nurse to home visit. Without me going on for days she told me this. No soaps or alcohol and no lube.Just use a bamboo baby wipe (I use a brand named GAIA NATURAL) and get laser polished catheters one size smaller (APOGEE catheters white for gauge)

Technique is to bunch up the wipe around the tip and squeeze some fluid into the catheter, drop that sucker down your urethra wetting it with the wipe on the way down and bingo. Afterward pull it out and chuck it on its hook in the bathroom (most of the time on the floor!!!)

You can take it or leave it. But a box of 50 Cathers is still going 8 years later.,HOLY SHIT this is amazing!  I  haven't had a UTI in a while so what the hell this will be worth it if it works! 

I'm clear except the laser polished catheters. Do I just ask my supply company for that particular style?  Or are you saying APOGEE is the brand?  

Did you get the bamboo baby wipes at a grocery store or where? I've never heard of these.Re-using catheters,I use cliny kit catheters. They are designed to be reused. You put glycerol in the tube that the catheter is stored in. It's a bit messy but it also acts as lube. 


You take the cath out of the tube, use it. Rinse well, stick it back in the tube.

They cost way more but a single cath can last a month. The glycerol needs to be changed every 5 days or so as the level goes down. First sign of a uti and swap to a new cath just in case.

The tube will last 3 months and you can get the caths by themselves to use in it.

It is a lot easier to carry too compared to a bunch of single use ones.Re-using catheters,I might be preaching to the converted. I’m in the UK and I haven’t really had the need to reuse catheters as they are free. Although I have on holiday using the same ideas and haven’t had a problem.

I have however had problems in spite of using sterile catheters over the years. 
It’s the point of entry... 
However I have found that using some sort of wet wipe whether it’s anti bacterial wipes, or just a simple wet wipe Is it really effective way of reducing firstly the stinging cystitis and then subsequent full on UTIs. 
I got a bit side tracked with idea of sterilisation and anti-bacterial products to “kill gems”: around the area of entry: its is a red herring. I have found is that using alcohol (ouch) or harsh chemicals and anti bacterial agents isn’t practical or effective for the reasons you might think.The fact is that you can never fully sterilise that area. 
However using clean ordinary wet wipes has the effect to greatly reduce the amount of bacteria around the entry point, and therefore vastly reducing chances of infection. 
It does this amazingly by physically removing them by wiping away! I don’t know if everybody knew this but I really didn’t. I thought you had to “kill bacteria” with anti bacterial agents or a harsh chemicals or something. 
Wiping really works. 
The same principle applies to soap and water When washing your hands. Soap does not really have a great deal of affect on killing bacteria, however the mixture of running water and the lather mobilises the bacteria and physically removes them from your hands. 
It is therefore a very effective way of reducing infections. 
Hence why it is still used in hospitals today. 
So as much as you would like to fuss over sterilising your catheter, as important to that routine is adding in an additional steps to simply wipe the end of your dick a few times with a clean baby wipe and wash your hands regularly will really help. 
This is also, the reason that sadly ladies are more prone to infections as it’s much harder to remove the natural bacteria prior to entry.,Our healthcare system in the U.S. is just mind-boggling to the rest of the world.  I pay about a hundred USD on catheters alone each month.  Hopefully one of these days our system will catch up with the 21st century.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Does anyone else take adderall?,I don't take it, but I have read that stimulants can affect the contraction of the bladder's spincter. I read this while searching for info. about urinary retention. Also:

"Muscles in the digestive tract are slowed down by Adderall use, which may lead to constipation, abdominal pain, and other gastrointestinal issues.",I get mild abdominal pain but constipation is the exact opposite of my issue. I actually stopped the oxybutanin because I leaned I could go without and just my myrabetriq but it was causing constipation issuesDoes anyone else take adderall?,I used to take it all the time to party with, before the accident. Haven't taken it yet since, which has been about 7 months, but I will try it sometime and report back!Does anyone else take adderall?,Hi u/knockout350!

Nurse here. Yes, Adderall can cause diarrhea. (Also constipation which sounds weird but is true.) Some things to try if you’re paranoid about it happening again: take it about 30 minutes before you take other meds. And don’t swallow it with coffee. Only water.,Thanks I think it may have just been a one off from starting the meds because I haven't pooped in 3 days now so I think it's reversed course. Always fun dealing with an sciDoes anyone else take adderall?,Been taking adderall for a while and yes it does very much make me have to go the  bathroom. Thats a side effect.Does anyone else take adderall?,I started coffee again after not having ANY caffeine since 2007.  I LOVE coffee, but it doesn't love me.  It's been wreaking havoc on my bowels and bladder and I guess I'm going to have to quit again.Does anyone else take adderall?,adderall triggers my muscle spasticity something fierce, particularly in my shoulders/neck. super uncomfortable, and can trigger migraines. it’s a shame since i have spasms all night long, so during the day i walk around in a fatigued haze. (i’m a partial c5/c6 walker).,I haven't had to much issue with that, I do notice I have to stop and stretch out more often though but I don't sleep for shit without melatonin and a heating pad for nerve pain anyways.Does anyone else take adderall?,Okay! I have tried the Addiez now and will let you know tomorrow if it hits me in any way. Also, how much were you taking? I usually did 15-30mg, and took 20 this time.  Saw that it were experiencing some constipation; is that still happening?,Yeah im on the 20xr, had an issue with diarrhea when I first started but now it's all leveled out now. It does cause spasms to kick up now though.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Are we more vulnerable to the corona virus with sci?,Nah cause we don’t leave the house, lol,“Heyyyy....good to see you out” -Corona Virus,🤣🤣🤣Are we more vulnerable to the corona virus with sci?,I have heard about this immune system stuff, and I think it's correct. My partner has an L1 incomplete injury, 10 months in. He's been sick a few times already since the injury, while I've shared his saliva and got nothing. Fever a few times, some UTI related, sore throat, colds. He is also mobile. He got blood testing done recently and one of his WBC was higher.Are we more vulnerable to the corona virus with sci?,At 6 months out with an L1 injury you are no more at risk than you would be without SCI. 

In general the higher the level (for example I can't cough like an able bodied person but you can) and or the longer you have been injured the more your SCI factors into your flu risk.,I think I'll try to get hold of the primary doctor i had at the rehabilitation hospital.

As I replied to another user, I did get the common flu even though I got the flu shot as soon as it was available. I'll let you guys know if I get any new information from the hospital.,Why is the flu risk higher if it is longer since the injury?Are we more vulnerable to the corona virus with sci?,The biggest problem is the risk of pneumonia with any kind of respiratory infection which includes Covid-19. The inability to cough and expel mucous leads to pneumonia and further reducing the ability to absorb oxygen into the bloodstream. This applies more to C6 and up, so your L1 isn’t as big of a risk.Are we more vulnerable to the corona virus with sci?,https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5029284/,That's an interesting study, especially because they found effects for both innate and adaptive immunity. I would add some caveats, viral titer is probably a decent surrogate to how "infective" it is, but not necessarily. Different viruses may have different effects and this study is done on mice, so a follow up human study would be great. For Covid-19 and flu, it carries more risk for quads and thoracic level paras, because they have reduced pulmonary function and would suffer more once infected. If anyone hasn't gotten flu vaccine, they should. And if it starts getting more widespread, avoid large gatherings and make sure everyone is washing their hands!,Ok, so because nerve signals having a chance of being disrupted, the immune system below the point of injury could be affected? Much of the immune system is within the bowels, right? My stool is not like it was before injury and has not improved. It is like many small ping-pong balls, like an elk or a deer. I did get the flu even with the vaccine, so I guess I should take precautions.Are we more vulnerable to the corona virus with sci?,Are we more vulnerable to the flu? Yes, you were told that - so that's really the fact you need to be focusing on and getting the flu jab/taking precautions. The thing about the corona virus right now is that we don't know a lot about it beyond the cases that we've observed, that's why it is being framed as scary: we don't know really what it does, and there isn't currently a known treatment. Altough you're right, it seems to most negatively impact old people, people with lung issues and people with preexisting health conditions. That could include SCI and its impact on the immune system.

Though, I wouldn't worry massively about it - the media are whipping up irresponsible amounts of panic surroundin COVID-19 and as of current, the phrase to remember is Alert Not Anxious. Just wash your hands, and generally go about your business as you would to avoid the flu. I don't know what country you're in, but follow your governmental guidelines as well as that of the CDC.

I vaguely considered this, my coughing is impacted a little being an incomplete quad - but, then I dismissed the concern because it is no where near me and the few cases here are very monitored and in hospital. Much like very severe cases of the flu.Are we more vulnerable to the corona virus with sci?,Weaker immune system. Depends on degree of injury and level of mobility. So in short, yes.,My mobility is good. I can take long walks in the woods without any aids. 

Why does mobility have an impact here?Are we more vulnerable to the corona virus with sci?,I feel I'm going to start giving out Lysol spray to my reddiwheel drivers so we can spray down the seatbelt and seats.Are we more vulnerable to the corona virus with sci?,I might be talking out of my ass, however the reduction in the efficacy of the immune system is surely related to being inactive and then therefore less physically fit with it’s related Heath issues rather than the spinal injury itself been the causal factor in the reduction of the immune system.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Activities for SCI,10 years post as well. SCI is a lonley life. Your friends stop coming around, family moves on. It may seem trivial to you but just hanging out and watching TV with someone is letting him know that you give a shit. Don't feel you have to buy a brain controlled chess set or anything, simply showing up is always welcome.,THIS COMMENT 👏👏👏Activities for SCI,Hey bro I'm 10 years post SCI. I only remember the friendship and support of my visitors, not what we did. Just hang out and talk about normal shit. You are a true friend just being there.

Oh yea, don't talk about how paraplegic people can still ski and ride bikes and ATV's that sort of shit, it offers no comfort.

Your a good man!! My injury was the last time I saw most of my "BFFs"Activities for SCI,I'm also about 10 years out... Keep doing what you're doing. It helped when there was sports on, because it would give us something to watch. I started watching hockey around this time of year, and have been hooked ever since. When I had my tracheostomy, I literally went crazy. I had bad psychosis because I couldn't communicate at all. My arms and hands didn't work. A few weeks later they put a cap over the trache hole and was able to speak. I wish they would've done that for a minute or two a day just so I could tell them I wanted to change the channel. Anyway, just keep visiting and maybe read to him if he ever enjoyed that sort of thing.,I’ve been binging on the show Survivor lately so I’m thinking I’ll pick a season and watch an episode every time I come. My family is making sure someone goes and sees him in rehab every day. They have 7-8 sports channels so we make sure his games he wants to watch get written on the board. Thanks for your response!Activities for SCI,Could you get him a laptop and something like a Tobii eye tracker that works with free software like https://github.com/OptiKey/OptiKey  so he can communicate? Or a quick printout of something like www.communicationchart.com (free).

If you are running out of stuff to talk about and can hook up a console to his tv, you could maybe bring a console + somewhat slow game with a good storyline with you and play that for a while, and talk about what to do in the game?

Less boring than tv/movies get after a while I think. One of those interactive decisions matter games might be fun, also if he still can't communicate but can do yes/no by looking left/right up/down whatever works. 

There are ways to make a game controller quad friendly, and there are games that work with eye trackers but if you want info on that better ask some of the quads here, I just googled. Good luck!,Thanks friend!Activities for SCI,Glad to hear that the surgery went well. I think he would just appreciate having the company to be honest. 

My trach period was probably my most frustrating because I couldn't talk. Looking back, my parents created an alphabet chart on paper so I could communicate with them with my eyes. Maybe get him something to use so he can do the same.,Yeah we have one of those letter boards and also a list of common requests. So far he doesn’t like using the letter board. He’s always been easily frustrated so I think unless it’s really important, if we can’t read lips he just mouths nevermind. I haven’t had any alone time with him yet but tomorrow I’m going to see if he’ll use the letter board to say anything to me because I just want him to communicate with me and know exactly what He’s saying even if it’s just a word. I really really hope the trach comes out soon. It’s been almost 2 months. I just want to bring him some chick fil a!!Activities for SCI,I'm 19 years out and have no friends really or family. I always appreciated people just coming around telling stories from their lives, watching TV, even scratching and massaging my head. (So long as it's not painful.)
I had a trachea and would mouth a letter and someone would type it until they knew what I was asking for or was trying to say. Much easier than the letter chart!Activities for SCI,10+ years also here. Just keep doing what your doing manPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Start up looking to meet people with spinal cord injury to understand their situation,I'm a T5 complete - almost 5 years post accident.  I Crossfit twice a week.  Feel free to DMStart up looking to meet people with spinal cord injury to understand their situation,C4. Feel free to get in touchStart up looking to meet people with spinal cord injury to understand their situation,Are you looking for wheelchair users or walkers a well? I’m L5/S1 walker with crutches, living in the Uk.Start up looking to meet people with spinal cord injury to understand their situation,T9 incomplete. Almost 10 years out. Wanting to start working out asap.Start up looking to meet people with spinal cord injury to understand their situation,T7 complete! Im 25 and a recent college grad, and was injured about 4 or so years ago. Hit me up!Start up looking to meet people with spinal cord injury to understand their situation,I'm L1 incomplete four years out. I stay pretty active but airways looking to do more. Feel free to DM.Start up looking to meet people with spinal cord injury to understand their situation,C3-c4 incomplete, craniotomy due to a glioblastoma. Hit me up.Start up looking to meet people with spinal cord injury to understand their situation,L4-L5 incomplete. Ambulance with AFOs and cane. I’m a Paralympic swimmer and also play sled hockey and wheelchair basketball!Start up looking to meet people with spinal cord injury to understand their situation,Low cervical AIS C here! I think you could talk to universities around you and see if their disability resource centers would be willing to reach out to disabled students there. I’m in college and there tends to be at least a few students with SCI and similar issues at most large schools, and most of us are open to being involved in this type of research.,That's a great idea, didn't think of that. We're pretty close to a few universities so that's one to look into. Thanks a lot!Start up looking to meet people with spinal cord injury to understand their situation,I would reach out to non-profit groups that support stroke victims after hospital care.  My mother had a stroke last year and the local (Kingston, not that far from Waterloo) region has local resources for her to join to exercise with others at the YMCA and other facilities.  Pretty much what you are looking for I think.    


Feel free to contact me directly for more info.,We're definitely looking into that. Thanks! Will reach out if I got questions :)Start up looking to meet people with spinal cord injury to understand their situation,I am a 25 year old C6 quadriplegic as of 2013! I live downtown Toronto. Feel free to message meStart up looking to meet people with spinal cord injury to understand their situation,T2-T3 incomplete, feel free to DM mePosted Question, Comment, Reply
How to not go broke paying for medical stuff,SCI means you get automatically approved for disability. I am lucky (well everything is relative) not to have a high level SCI so can still work, but my understanding is medicare will pay for a power chair, catheters and some reimbursement for care givers. 

Maybe someone who is on government programs can describe what is covered. I would start applying yesterday, not matter what it takes 4 months (I think),There really is no such thing as "automatic approval" anymore. I mean, you won't be denied, but you still have to go through the whole approval process.  As a previous commenter said, that can take 6 months - year. But yes, they will pay 80% of the cost of a chair, most medical supplies, etc.  You are on the hook for 20% of stuff, so it's wise to look into a Medigap (effectively a Part C) plan.

**HOWEVER** if he's not retirement age, sadly, he will need to be disabled (that is, from when he starts his disability benefits - SSDI) for two years before he's eligible for Medicare. So, get that ball rolling now. 

If he, himself is super duper poor (like, under $16k a year), he can get Medicaid health insurance.,I applied in March of 2019 and got approved in September. Still didn't receive my first dispersement until December.How to not go broke paying for medical stuff,If you are in the United States, check with the nurse case manager or social worker at the rehab facility about Medicaid. Medicaid in most states offers sure worker type services in addition to whatever other care would be covered by Medicare. Most facilities have someone who will help facilitate the initial application for Medicaid. Plus they have resources to direct you to low-cost services to apply for Medicare disability. Often the services are cheaper than attorneys. The money comes from your initial disbursement.How to not go broke paying for medical stuff,Did he have a life insurance policy at the time of the accident? Many have an Accident Death and Dismemberment rider. Losing function in a limb counts as dismemberment under all of the life policies I have seen.How to not go broke paying for medical stuff,Simone needs to contact social security now! There should be social workers at the rehab to help. He is eligible for catastrophic approval. Very quick and includes full health insurance. They will pay the three months prior to applying for medical bills. It all starts and ends at your Social Security office. Good luck.How to not go broke paying for medical stuff,I just wanted to say that I’m so sorry you’re going through that. I fractured my spinal cord and was in the hospital for close to 8 months. I live in Canada, so it was all covered. I can’t imagine :( I hope you find some helpful resources.,Thank you very much. Happy healing to you.How to not go broke paying for medical stuff,Move to the UKPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Should I tell them I am in a wheelchair?,If it's in person then yes let them know ahead of time.Should I tell them I am in a wheelchair?,I never do...they’ll obviously find out in the interview. All my jobs have been office jobs in a cubicle so being in a wheelchair doesn’t affect me doing the job. I was a cashier at a fast food place when I was a teenager (was working there when I got hurt) I returned to work months later.

Good luck! 

Remember to report your wages if you’re on disabilityShould I tell them I am in a wheelchair?,I’m always upfront and transparent about being in a wheelchair. For example back when I was doing online dating, I had at least one picture of me in my chair and mentioned in my profile in a joking fashion. As far as jobs go though, I’ve had my fair share over the years and never did I once mention that I was in a wheelchair when simply applying. If you get an interview they’ll obviously find out then and there, and they don’t need to know beforehand. Only once was I ever turned down because of the wheelchair. Job would have required a lot of flying on a company jet to private runways that wouldn’t always be accessible.,I Second this,Thank you. I'm nervous for the interview I dislike people asking me question maybe that's why I don't date. Haha.Should I tell them I am in a wheelchair?,How can u maneuver in that lil bit of space?,reply I don't know. I've never been inside that particular store. I have a manual wheelchair chair so it's less comberson. I might be in for a surprise. I just filled out this application as a fluke. I'm a little concern most of these chain store company's are not hiring the disabled in particular wheelchair folks.Should I tell them I am in a wheelchair?,Isn’t it illegal if they ask what accommodations you need or what disability you have? But idk whether to tell them., I am in California. Lots of laws out here.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Just need to vent,I hear you.  A few years ago I was dealing with spasms that would come about every five minutes.  So, just enough time to start to drift off to sleep...only to feel like someone's shaking you awake.  For hours.  I took sleep aids pretty often during that time, which is, of course, not good for you, but I didn't know what to do.  

Mine subsided a lot because I eventually got a much needed spinal fusion, so I don't have any advice for you (sorry).  But I understand.Just need to vent,I don’t think I have any helpful advice but I just wanted to say I’m sorry for what you’re dealing with. I have spasms/spasticity that definitely impact my QoL but they don’t sound near as bad as yours. 

What country are you in? I’m guessing the US based on the insurance denials but I know other countries do health insurance too. If they finally approved the trial, is there any way you can have it done somewhere other than the place that’s “at capacity”?

The only other thing I’m gonna toss out there is Valium. I know you said you’d tried meds, but you didn’t specify all of them I’m guessing so if you haven’t tried Valium but know someone who would prescribe it, it might be worth trying. I use it, though definitely on a limited basis when I really need the relief because of the dependency issues when it’s taken regularly.Just need to vent,[deleted],I second this. My spasticity isn't THAT  bad, just when I go from a sitting to straightened position, then all hell breaks loose.  But smoking and edibles help me sleep almost the entire night.,It's in his second sentence.Just need to vent,Have you tried yoga?Just need to vent,I really hope that you are able to get the pump. I was in a very similar situation. Maximum oral dose of baclofen, tizanidine and Botox.  The oral stuff really made me tired all the time. Needing to nap like an hour after taking it. I also found that it really made me kind of mentally clouded. Hard to focus on things. Getting the pump straight up changed my life. I could finally go down the street without feeling like I’m going to fall out of my chair from my spasms. Actually get decent sleep at night. And not be practically falling asleep during the day at any moment. I really know the frustrations that you’re going through so best of luck finally getting the surgery!  Also just so you know, when you get the trial, it makes you completely flaccid. Which is actually a little weird because I didn’t realize that some of my spasticity helped my transfers. But don’t worry! When you get the pump, you fine-tune your dosage to get the perfect amount that works for you.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
AI Robotic Arm Assisting Quadriplegics,hold a slice of pizza  
or sandwich   
or hamburger,also where do I sign up to test your beer slamming, iris tracking, terminator  thumbs up giving wonder arm?AI Robotic Arm Assisting Quadriplegics,See if I can wipe my own ass/suppository insertion without ’errors’.,I would 2nd this but I wouldn't be the tester/guinea pig.AI Robotic Arm Assisting Quadriplegics,Overthrow the bourgeoisie,Is that the T 1000 main operating protocol?AI Robotic Arm Assisting Quadriplegics,Play video games, possibly.AI Robotic Arm Assisting Quadriplegics,Like others have said: handheld foods. Also eating utensils, a cell phone, pens, cups, a comb/toothbrush, a jacket zipper, maybe a door handle, some type of bag, AirPods, etc. Really anything that’s practical for everyday use.AI Robotic Arm Assisting Quadriplegics,Curious if you've heard of the [Kinova robotic arm?](https://www.kinovarobotics.com/en/products/assistive-technologies/kinova-jaco-assistive-robotic-arm) I would almost recommend trying to find something that your arm might do better than this one. Or something it may offer that this doesn't?  I like the use of machine learning/AI or eyegaze-. Voice control may also be interesting. A lot of feedback I hear from folks using the kinova are that it's hard to control. I've also seen them pretty beat up bc of where they mount if wheelchairs and their size making them prone to getting smashed in doorways and small spaces. I would also reinforce getting it to do anything that a paid caregiver might do in order to demonstrate to insurers that the cost of the arm would save in the cost of care providers.,Thanks for your input!

We are actually working with the Jaco2 from Kinova, however as you say, control can be hard given that it has many degrees of freedom, and quads generally don't have the mobility to control all of them properly, which is why we would like to "smart it up". 

Voice commands are actually planned as well such that the arm can determine whether it should i.e. pick and place something, or grasp something to eat.AI Robotic Arm Assisting Quadriplegics,I’d love a robotic arm to grasp my delicate object!😂✊💦Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Does anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,I don’t personally do it but I don’t see anything wrong with it. especially if it makes you uncomfortable talking about it. Don’t feel guilty, we have enough other stuff to worry about with SCIsDoes anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,I was injured in Afghanistan when an IED went off and flipped the Suburban I was in. I wasn't in the military at the time I was working as a contractor, basically a glorified bodygaurd. I just tell people I was in a car accident. If I add IED, Afghanistan I get ":thank you for your service" which I don't want to take credit for and don't want to explain why. It is no ones business how you got in a chair, I wouldn't sweat it.,There was a typo on a local news station website a few years back. Marine loses leg to IUD.

Perhaps you should make a small tweak to your story and see who notices...Does anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,If you're going to lie, might as well have fun with it.

A crazy lady pushed me over the rail for the lion exhibit at the zoo. A skydiver landed on me in a freak accident. My neighbor went crazy and started chasing me with an axe until I fell in a hole.,Hahah I love the creativity. I definitely have made up elaborate stories. I told this one where I saved this little girl who was playing in the road when a car was coming. I took the brunt of the collision but the little girl was okayDoes anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,Oh, I do this as a bit. I was actually injured as a passenger in a car accident, but I got tired of telling ppl that. Specifically, I got tired of that being the first question someone asks me when they meet me. My favorite "reason" is autoerotic asphyxiation. Ppl get REAL uncomfortable,Hahaha nice. Ive jokingly said that I was trying to give myself a bj. I’ve also told people my parents are antivaxers and I got polio,>people get REAL uncomfortable 

Am I the only one that has grown to enjoy this with strangers?? 

It’s hilariousDoes anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,I usually say none of your business and laugh people feel so awkward when I make that statement that it gives me a little bit of a chuckle. At the end of the day you don't owe anyone an explanation of your injury. Just say something like why don't we talk about something else or there are other important matters. Tell people about your injury only if you want to considering we lose control over our life take control by telling people when you feel comfortable. It's a confidence booster and I think it's fair because people don't understand that just because you have an injury doesn't mean you need to talk about it.,Hmm. I should try that.Does anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,Bruh making up stories on how you are in a chair is the best part imho

I usually go with “the chute didn’t open” or “tragic jousting accident back when I worked at Medieval Times” 

It’s funDoes anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,Not on a regular basis, but with people how are clearly going to be annoying, or in front of friends that know the truth and will get a huge kick out of it, I'll occasionally make up a story. I don't remember many, but I know that I once said "Death by snu snu didn't work on me.",Tragic ass eating accident.,The spirit is willing but the flesh is spongey and bruised,Hahaha that’s great!Does anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,My SCI is super rare and the explanation invites complete doubt. It's exhausting to explain in the face of disbelief. So, yeah, I've just agreed it's from a car crash many times.,I slipped and fell on a dock then fell again in calculus class a month later, life is weirdDoes anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,i like to go with saving a baby from a burning building. i also tell ppl my feeding tube scar is a gun shot wound lolDoes anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,Don't feel guilty for not answering a very personal question asked by someone you likely don't even know very well.  It's none of their business.

Of course, if you want to be honest, go ahead.  But really, you're under no obligation to them.  Just understand that it is your choice, so feel OK to make that choice yourself.  It's up to you whether or not you share your story.Does anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,Why bother to lie?  I just explain what happened, and answer any follow up questions they have. It’s not so bad. The more you do it the better you get at it. I’m a c4. I know what you’re going through. But there’s no reason to be embarrassed and if you don’t lie, there’s no reason to feel guilty. Just my opinion.Does anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,I used to do it when I worked retail and got asked several times a day. It was just for fun. But mostly people get different versions of the story depending on how well I know them.,I suppose that’s a big part of it—how well do I know them or am I going to have a lot of contact with this person in the future.Does anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,For literally any injury I have ever had, I go with the “I ran into a burning building to save a baby“ line. This is also acceptable for papercut.Does anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,Most people notice and ask why my hand is in a soft brace first, and I just gesture the ever eloquent masturbation motion and say, "a little too much lately" 

Usually breaks the ice and brings out a smile, so I can smoothly transition to telling them I was actually shot in the face.,I enjoyed the article you wrote. When are you coming out with more?Does anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,I start with "Gunned down by a mob of jealous husbands".  

I'm actually pretty open about my injury (fall at a construction site) but it's okay if you aren't.  I suspect that most people are actually trying to protect their own sense of security ("Well, it'll never happen to ME because I don't work construction").


There's also, "I walked up to a guy in a wheelchair and asked the wrong kind of question."Does anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,Lately my go to is "walking is beneath me"Does anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,I used to but now I see the folly of my ways. Lying to people is not great, especially about something so personal. I explain and answer as many questions as I can. I find it helps them to understand me and disability as a whole. I feel like if I give them honesty and treat them with respect then the next disabled person they run into they will return the feelings. If I lie to them and disrespect them then they will see people with disability as jerks and not be respectful to the next person they meet. If you dont want to talk about it then say that, please dont lie, it is not a good message to send to others.Does anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,>  I usually say I was in a car crash and the conversation stops there.

You could say it was a sports injury.Does anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,Run over by a dump truck is usualy enough.Does anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,I knew someone who always said the sex swing broke. Hubby tells a different story to everyone who asks.Does anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,Definitely depends on the situation. When it’s just a random person on the street, I sometimes have lied and said it was a car accident when in reality it was a diving accident.

It just makes the interaction faster because they tend to have more questions when I tell the truthDoes anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,I do every once in a while but usually after I tell "them" the real story. 
"I broke my neck diving into a pool but that's a boring story so I'm going to start telling people I was skydiving or bull riding like my quadriplegic friend actually did."
Why not!? What are "they" going to do? Fact check you? LolDoes anyone tell people a made up story of how they were injured?,Tagging u/organic_hobnob here because he posted something about this in a more recent post.,Thanks for thisPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Discord,Here it is: [https://discord.gg/9Q4hPQ](https://discord.gg/9Q4hPQ),Thank youPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Painful periods after sci. Help!,Please seek medical attention from your ob/gym.Painful periods after sci. Help!,The birth control can’t helpPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Quadriplegic Vlog Wheelchair Exercise Ideas Using a pulley to move legs,Great work bro I don’t have tips but I damn sure could use some, how did u set everything up cuz I would love to set my room up so I can exercise on my own? Thanks for the inspiration yes we gotta keep fighting as much as we hate this shit,I usually figure out or ask others about ideas on how to set up things I want to work on. The pulley is just a $15 pulley I ordered from amazon, I had a friend drill eye screws or bolts into my ceiling so I can attach the pulley and other things over head. I also had a square of fencing from home depot affixed to two walls and you can attach things in front of you. Keep fighting! I'm sorry I'm not great at explaining things but I will try to explain as best I can so feel free to ask.Quadriplegic Vlog Wheelchair Exercise Ideas Using a pulley to move legs,Nice man, very cool idea!!,Got to keep trying. I haven't come close to figuring out how to do what I know I'm capable of but there is always a wayPosted Question, Comment, Reply
How do you shower while traveling?,I put a towel into the bottom of the bathtub to sit on, and transfer onto the side of the tub, then slowly into the bottom of the tub. Getting out I can only do if there are grab bars, transfer back onto the side of the tub, (with another towel laid over the side of the tub to protect my butt) then transfer into the chair.,That's the way I manage. Hotel benches are crud most of the time. You wouldn't think we don't live in the dark ages any longer!How do you shower while traveling?,I always pack a shower bench. It breaks down and stores in a Pelican-type case. 

I don't trust the benches that hotels provide. They vary in shape, size and condition. By traveling with my own, I can avoid worrying about taking a shower.

If you are flying, you can pack a fairly large [Pelican case](https://www.pelican.com/us/en/product/cases/transport-case/protector/1630) full of equipment and [it'll fly for free](https://www.transportation.gov/individuals/aviation-consumer-protection/wheelchairs-and-other-assistive-devices) if it's marked as Disability Aids. I'd travel with a shower bench, padded toilet seat, catheters and other necessities. The airlines never charged me for carrying it as baggage as long as it was properly marked.,Thank you for this tip I’m traveling to Austin later this year and was trying to figure this out.How do you shower while traveling?,
Most hotels I have stayed in have acceptable shower benches. The exceptions are very cheap and super expensive ones. If you are staying for a couple days and the shower bench sucks Amazon has reasonable ones for 60 bucks and if you are a prime member you can get it next day for 70    

Then I just leave it.,This is looking like my most economical option.  Thanks!!
Honestly may even dry it out and return it via prime...How do you shower while traveling?,I try to get the low-down from the hotels ahead of time - newer hotels are typically better regarding accessibility, and I find Marriott brands to be good, too

i like roll-in showers with fold down benches - but I have taken my rubbermaid/carex seat in my car before

you can typically rent a shower bench in a town from a med supply place if you want to have one delivered to the hotelHow do you shower while traveling?,goesanywhere.com makes a bunch of cool productsPosted Question, Comment, Reply
I spent 10 months in bed, eight of which in the hospital laying mostly flat on my back without the use of my hands, but I could still play Civ! Jacked up on Valium, I made a video how to improve the game for quadriplegics. 4000+ hrs,Awesome!I spent 10 months in bed, eight of which in the hospital laying mostly flat on my back without the use of my hands, but I could still play Civ! Jacked up on Valium, I made a video how to improve the game for quadriplegics. 4000+ hrs,Dude, nice! I'd be so annoyed with the head tracker.I spent 10 months in bed, eight of which in the hospital laying mostly flat on my back without the use of my hands, but I could still play Civ! Jacked up on Valium, I made a video how to improve the game for quadriplegics. 4000+ hrs,Hi

I played a lot of Civ as well :) you should definitively check out XCOM 2, it is made by Firaxis as well. You can often find a bundle on discount on Steam. 

It is a turn-based tactical squad game with lots of content. If you can play Civ you should be able to XCOM as well from what I see in your videos. 

I play it using a GlassOuse headmouse with a bite-clicker + 2 buttons for mouse right-click and scroll-up. Most other functions are clickable on-screen except the escape key for bringing up the main menu.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Complex Regional Nerve Pain,I have just started down the road to diagnosis. Pain is unreal.Complex Regional Nerve Pain,I was rx'd gabapentin for central sensitization which is similar. No side effects, I use before bed.,I'm actually on gabapentin, baclofen, and duloxetine for nerve pain from the spinal surgery. Unfortunately, the dosage I'm on isn't doing what it used to. I may have to talk to my doc about upping it gain. I just want a little relief.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Salt and snow,It's just something you gotta deal with. I try to make sure I don't wipe my hands on my pants regardless of how wet and salty they are and I generally go wash my hands as soon as I get inside a building. I haven't don't this, but you could try carrying a salt rag to briefly clean your rims and wipe off your hands when you enter a building and then stow it away.Salt and snow,I'll carry a small hand towel in my backpack to wipe things off when I get somewhere if I care about the place like say a friend's house.  I drive everywhere I can and park in undergrounds if possible and seat covers for the spots I put my wheels in my car cause that shit gets filthy...Salt and snow,Try gloves my dude! They look a little ridiculous but they work for me in the snowSalt and snow,I look like a fucking disgusting mess in the winter. Salt everywhere. The floors in my apartment are gross and I clean them constantly. :( very relatableSalt and snow,Gloves (my partner uses utility work gloves because we live in central Alberta) and a second set of wheels to swap into once home if you're able to do that have worked quite well for us. 

Ideal situation, having one chair for indoor usage at home and one chair for outdoor/everywhere else really helps minimize the salt and snow everywhere. 

Carrying a small towel that you can use to dry your wheels off and such also helps.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Finding it hard readjusting to my previous social and work life after injury,C4-5 incomplete walking quad, injured in 2017. For me, these adjustments have taken time. The injury turned into the only thing I knew for awhile. No matter what I was doing, SCI was on the tip of my brain. And still is to an extent. But things eventually started to feel normal again. Little things I didn’t notice at first, making a pot of coffee, taking a piss, getting dressed, having a non health related conversation. These little things add up and have learned new norms.

Eventually, a day will go by when your injury is not the most important thing in your life. You’ll talk to your friends and family about normal things. You’ll learn to live a normal life again, just different than it was before.  Give it time, focus on recovery, things will come back together for you.,Thanks. It helps knowing that I am not alone. I have had days where I have been able to focus on other things than SCI, and I do appreciate some little things like coffee and good food. I do spend a lot of time in the forest, and some days I am able to take it in, relax and just be in the moment. That helps, and I appreciate those moments. I hope I eventually will feel like I have gone through the changes that will happen and that my health is more stable from day to day. Then I will know what my new normal is and I can focus on other things.Finding it hard readjusting to my previous social and work life after injury,C4/5 incomplete walking quad, since 07. 

In my experience, everyone has a different reaction ranging from wanting to be there for you at anytime to fearing being by you because they don't know how to act. 

The silly notion that the new physical you somehow comes with a new personality of you, drives many people to avoid social interactions.

It's only when you become comfortable with the new you, and are able to openly talk about your injury and new reality, will some of those people come around. 

Relationships with others may never be the same but it helps you weed out who you should be hanging out with and who doesn't deserve your time to begin with. 

I found my pre injury social circle shrank and I built a new post injury social network that was stronger. 

7 months ago, I moved away permanently and have been travelling since which has put building a brand new social network to the test. Being completely open about my injury, and comfortable with myself, helps a lot and I find the topic of my injury actually helps break the ice and gives any stranger an opportunity to talk to me and vice versa. 

It won't happen overnight, but the sooner you make peace with yourself and accept your new reality, you will find moving forward with anything else much easier including your social life.Finding it hard readjusting to my previous social and work life after injury,Im a T7 para and Im 25 now but was injured about 4 1/2 years ago. The things I couldnt do and the places I couldnt really go with my friends took a toll on me mentally, and plus they all were like awkwardly sorry for me at first so that didnt help thing. It was super awkward for a while but when I got used to me situation and they got more ised to seeing me in a wheelchair, it got a little better. It took at least a year after my injury for them to be normal with me and not act like I was some special kid lol. Just took a while for me to feel comfortable in my chair talking to other people, for me to come out of my shell. 

Once you feel comfortable in your situation you gotta put yourself out there. I also started to play different wheelchair sports when I was finally able to (a year or so after), so that way I was able to meet other people in my situation.,I'm at that very uncomfortable point right now. 6 months along a T6/7 Incomplete, but starting to use a walker and crutches, but still mostly wheelchair. It's hard going from a life of partying every weekend, to just wanting to not do anything and feeling pressured to go out, or go to concerts.  Hoping things get better...Finding it hard readjusting to my previous social and work life after injury,I don’t think that your experience is uncommon. My social life especially changed quite a bit after I started having serious medical issues and difficulty walking. You didn’t say your age, but I think that can sometimes factor in. I initially started having trouble when I was in high school at 16, and had to take time off school because I was in and out of the hospital so much. There were some minor efforts by friends at that point to try and be supportive, but by the time everything was said and done, most of the people I was friends with prior to taking a break from school were no longer close to me and I don’t think they could really understand the gravity of the situation.

It was about 4ish years ago that things finally hit a point where I needed to start using a wheelchair full-time (currently I’m 32) and while some friendships have become much more superficial, there are definitely a few that are just as strong as they were before. I chalk that up to age and maturity. 

At the end of the day though, I think that expecting everything to return to how it was before your injury might be a bit unrealistic. Things are different now, you are different now, and that may mean needing to build new friendships if the current ones you have are no longer what they once were. 

It still hasn’t been that long for you yet either, so I would keep that in mind. If you’re saying that you haven’t yet accepted and adapted to your new normal, then perhaps expecting others to do so is a little bit unfair?

If I could offer you some advice, it would be two things:
1) Talk to your friends. Be honest and open about how you feel about your injury, how it’s changed things for you, and how you’re having a difficult time with adjusting to the social changes it’s brought in particular. Give your friends the benefit of the doubt and do what is within your control to try and help them understand. 
2) Be patient and don’t expect things to ever be exactly as they once were. You will find your new normal, including your social life and all that. But as you’ve said, it hasn’t been too long yet and I’d encourage you to focus on becoming more comfortable with yourself before you move on to working on outside relationships.

I wish you the best of luck! Maybe consider joining the Discord server and talking to those of us that are on there. I’ve found it to be quite helpful.

ETA: You mentioned that those you’ve spoken to about it haven’t been able to be as supportive as you’d like. I think that likely has less to with whether they care or not and more to do with them not knowing exactly what you need to feel supported. It might silly at first, but sometimes explaining what they can do to support you can be all it takes. Just as this is is uncharted territory for you, the same can be said for them. In my experience, most people don’t necessarily know how to support someone through such a life-altering event, and at times that can come across as uncaring when really it’s just a lack of knowledge (and often a fear of saying or doing the wrong thing). Don’t be afraid to tell your friends what them being supportive means to you, and perhaps reassure them that they don’t need to worry about doing or saying something “wrong” - that you’re still you.,I know that things will be different going forward. I feel different physically and I think my personality will change some as well because of this injury, if not, I will at least gain some perspective. 

I think some of my social issues I'm having has to do with my friends and even some relatives are behaving and treating me just like before. In this transition period of my life, that is not what I need. I have noticed that right now, things that I used to spend time doing with my friends before seem pointless and a waste of time. This is probably/maybe a temporary thing that will change when I am used to the new normal. 

The surgeon that did the last operation on my back told me that most of the changes/improvements to nerve damage and other issues related to the injury will happen during the first year. Then it becomes less likely, but some more changes can happen during the second year. After that window of time has passed, there's very low likelihood of improvements to the nerve damage I have. This makes me focus a lot on my health and spending as much time as possible being active.

This injury is a major life changer in many ways, and I think it is just overwhelming to have to deal with it all myself. Some days are good and I feel positive and energetic. Other days can be painful, slow and frustrating. I guess I am just searching for a way to ease the path I have to walk. It helps knowing I'm not alone. Thanks everyone for telling your story.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Shower bench chairs,I didn't like the cheap quality of the "cushions" provided on my Drive bench. So I cut a piece of 1/2" marine plywood, rounded the corners and added threaded inserts. I then shipped it off to [C Cushions](http://www.ccushions.com) here in Texas and had them make a "boat cushion" for me. I removed the standard three pads and bolted on the replacement.

Now I have a very well made cushion that's designed to withstand water and hold up in a wet environment. It's completely seamless and sealed very well. It will last much, much longer than the vinyl covered cushions it replaces. In addition, it's a single piece with no gaps (which I have found can contribute to skin breakdowns).Shower bench chairs,If it works for you, maybe re-order the same one? Four years is a pretty good life for a padded tub bench. If you change brands, do make sure the dimensions are similar.  I’ve run into models that sit too high off the floor for most people.,Yeah, am considering that. The reviews I had been reading for the Drive bench seat weren't promising, which is what I already have.  Didn't know if anybody had good experiences with other brands like gaurdians or anything like that.Shower bench chairs,How are you people using non-padded stuff?? One shower on a hard surface, and I'm risking so much.

I know you said bench, but if you can use just a chair, I just got this a couple months ago. It is pricier, but it's the best constructed chair I've used (you do not need to use the arms rests. They just snap in and out.)

https://smile.amazon.com/Shower-Armrests-ComfortAble-Institutional-Quality/dp/B01IPZVI0C,OP has a tub shower so he needs a transfer bench,Same here, as a person with a complete SCI for 20 years, if I took one shower on a hard shower chair that would definitely be skin break city for me.  Even in my younger years I was told to avoid the hard ones.Shower bench chairs,I got a cheap Rubbermaid stool that fits my tub/shower about 15 years ago - I have a roho deflated nexus cushion

damn thing will not breakShower bench chairs,https://www.amazon.com/dp/B004AC6UOO/ref=cm_sw_r_em_apa_i_nverEbJXB6M9N

This is what I use, other than being a little creeky at times at been great.,I used to use one similar, have had to upgrade to something a little larger and more stable. But thanks!Shower bench chairs,https://www.amazon.com/gp/aw/d/B008PC23QE?

I use this one. It’s very sturdy. As a male I find just putting a facecloth on it before sitting makes it more comfortable.Shower bench chairs,[deleted],Bathtub,. Which is why I switched from just a regular shower chair to the bench style.  Good question thoughPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Jobs?,I have been in the silicon valley working as a software engineer since the early 90s. Getting remote work will be hard with little experience. 

Why remote? I am a T8 complete and have no problems working on site. 

If you are set on remote, start practicing interview programming questions. Be serious about it, time yourself, do it in Google docs and not an IDE. The only way you will get a job is to crush those in the interview process. 

Have a GitHub account and do a non trivial project. Write a Android game, or a micro service. 

There are companies moving to all remote work forces, the problem is everyone wants that type of job so it's highly competitive. Treat getting a job as a job.Jobs?,I have some friends that work in CS and software engineering for Banner hospitals and Blue Cross Blue Shield. Depends on the position but some work fully from home, others work half and half. 

I found out after I got my job (I work in finance) that my company was an affirmative action employer. From my understanding they go out of their way to hire minorities and disabled people. So it wouldn't be a bad idea to try and find those companies.Jobs?,Shouldn’t be hard..telework is becoming more common, not just with CS. EE major here but I have a friend who is a software engineer at Equifax. He started out as an intern and he only had to be in office two days a week. When he went full time, he only had to be in office once a week.Jobs?,I'm a t5 complete and I work both on-site at my day job and remotely for some side hustles.  You shouldn't have any trouble finding work.  In my experience, employers will o out of their way to accommodate.Jobs?,I've never tried it myself, but have a look at "Upwork", which is a freelancing platform. They take a portion of what you make for fees which suck, but it could be something to consider for now?Jobs?,im a software dev and t6. i work remotely 1-4 days a week. i also get a lot of leeway to go to drs appointments.  Its it took me about 2-3 years to get confident to go out on my own after my accident but now i get on the train, get the best seat, everyone is willing to help me (to the point of me being like fuck off weirdo). only thing that sucks is the once or twice a year when the train breaks down im stranded. Ive had to wait for them to fix the train to get home. always carry extra supplies/ pants. never know when you are going to be wearing your puma pants at work :)

be upfront with them and tell them why you have the gap (if its accident related). play that wheelie boye card haha.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
*** PAID RESEARCH PARTICIPATION *** Looking for people with a physical disability from the UK *** Contact prosociality@hope.ac.uk ("Study P3") in order to participate ***,We need more posts like this! Maybe some US ones and/or some borderless studies?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Long car rides with bad backs?,yep same, 4 hr drive to moms(lives with 2 other family). i get real fidgety and uncomfortable. real bad if we didnt get out a few time over the 4 hrs. then have to deal with no seating. playing musical chairs between the hardwood kitchen chairs and couch.(i'll steal 30 min on the couch when i can to get my feet up.) after 3 days go home. my feet and ankles swollen. christmas week long visit started to turn colors because the only seating with about 9 adults around was my sport lawn chair i brought with me because they only have a couch and kitchen available. (there is a recliner but it's mom's,snag it when she's in bed) 

tell you what, i loved going for christmas to see my sick ma, but i paid for that no seating bs even on a 3 day run. then ask me why i bring my lawn chair hahaha are you kidding me? my issues are KNOWN smh. all i got for you for advice is ibuprofen,get up out of car often and hold on for the ride. it sucks.Long car rides with bad backs?,Back when my pain was real bad I would drive for 45 minutes and take a 15 minute break to stand and or walk around or even lay flat. I also used to have a “butt pillow,” basically a soft cushion to help softened my well ass! It helped a lot because I used to have sciatica and could not sit more than 30 minutes.,Thank you for saying that. I'm going to ask my pain doctor near the end of the month what he recommends for this situationLong car rides with bad backs?,Yeah. I used to love going on trips but now I avoid it like the plague. I just moved back to my hometown. Before that,  it was a 5 hour drive (often took 6.5) to visit my family and it was pure hell most of the time. Sometimes though,  it wouldn't be so bad. I'd wake up the next day ok or better than I expected. I would take it at your own pace . Stop frequently. Medicate. If you can tolerate nsaids , maybe try those because they reduce some of the inflammation. I used lidocaine patches too. Make sure you pack all the pillows, tens , meds that you'll need to recover. 

Last week , my friend asked me to drive her 4 hours to a doctor appointment. I asked if she was going to stay the night there and she said we could if I needed to. I still haven't answered her because of this very thing. I feel like an asshole because i have the time available,  but i don't want to be in unnecessary pain and I'm selfish I guess. Either way, you never know how you're going end up at the end of the trip....just make sure you have what you need to be comfortableLong car rides with bad backs?,Disposable back heat wraps really help me (L3/L4 incomplete with rods, etc) with long rides.  Stretching every 60-90 minutes is great if you can ask the driver to stop.  Other than that muscle relaxers might help.    


Alternating cold and heat treatment for 15 minutes at a time when you get to your destination for a while can help too.

Staying within the rules of your post I will not ask about the vehicle in question, only suggest if it's a  car the back seat by yourself has more room to semi lay flat might help.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Quadriplegic vlog Pullup Bar exercise - If I were cripple in my opinion,I have trouble hearing you over the background music,Sorry, I'm soft spoken, I should have left the music offPosted Question, Comment, Reply
What products would you recommend I buy so I can get back to gaming?,Thes guys might be worth giving a shout.  [https://ablegamers.org/](https://ablegamers.org/) 

&#x200B;

im c4 inc and i have relatively normal hand function on my left hand so i can play most games on ps4 using my left hand and pushing the buttons with my lower lip.What products would you recommend I buy so I can get back to gaming?,hey man im close to the same boat, im a c6/c7, no dexterity in my fingers. i wanna let you know it took me a good minute before i could play all my old fav shooters using a controller. i also use a regular mouse, just click with my palm... i started playing games where no triggers were required (NHL 2013) then just got better and better. probs took me 2 years then was leading raids in destiny. ill post a link to me playing halo... ive gotten better. i would say try to adapt that way you dont have to buy pricey equipment. how much wrist function do you have? also check out geforce now if you dont wanna buy a gaming rig yet. 

&#x200B;

 [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s7EJ4rwHd64&t=6s](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s7EJ4rwHd64&t=6s)What products would you recommend I buy so I can get back to gaming?,I combine an old ps move controller left hand as it’s not completely crippled. 
Right hand mouse use wrist /thumb to fire/action 
Stick to RPG or strategy for now 
Driving n FPS are not as fun 
Apple iPad Pro has lots of functionality for non normal hands for games and excellent spaz adaptions for voice over etc in other applications
Mac books also have excellent tracks pads that you can adjust to simply tap not “click “ down which my spongey mits couldn’t handle 
Steam games are very customisable 
Also download “input mapper “ which allows you to change the inputs on games that don’t play ball. 
I’ve tried all sorts and f adaptive mice, vertical mice infra red air mice - all shit 
I use a standard Logitech gaming mouse and kind of cup it sideways and use my thumb to press 
Awkward yes 
Impossible no 
Life finds a way
Or Addiction always finds a wayWhat products would you recommend I buy so I can get back to gaming?,No one has mentioned it yet. The Xbox adaptive controller is with looking in to. It had inputs jacks mapable to controller functions that allows you to use whatever input devices you need.

https://youtu.be/wEKIAHrugZ4

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xbox_Adaptive_ControllerWhat products would you recommend I buy so I can get back to gaming?,I'm a C4-C6 complete. My hands don't have function but my wrists are pretty good. I personally just use the regular PS4 controller and mouse and keyboard for PC. However for PC I typically stick to strategy games. PS4 I play FIFA, Red Dead, and Rocket League a lot. It took me awhile to get back into the games and it was frustrating at first but now I am back to kicking my friends asses. I recently got the Microsoft adaptive controller and have been trying to set that up with my PC for things like league of legends. I'm not sure how it'll work yet but I can let you know!,as a quad games with high aim assist like gta and red dead are amazingWhat products would you recommend I buy so I can get back to gaming?,My dad is a C4 complete and has no movement in the arms or hands at all. He still video games and uses a Quadstick for gaming. It is a joystick sip and puff with 4 different tubes and is compatible with nearly every console as well as PC. He has a very short video showing this on [YouTube](https://youtu.be/x66X_TPr7JI). 

It's definitely doable! PM me if you have questions, or I can put you in contact with my dad and he can answer questions and give advice.What products would you recommend I buy so I can get back to gaming?,i don't know which would be better for you  since injury is different for everyone  but i like the idea of everyone is sharing examples

heres me using something called a quadstick [https://youtu.be/rBZq9r2necc?t=16](https://youtu.be/rBZq9r2necc?t=16)

 [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jKogG0m-N7Y](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jKogG0m-N7Y)Posted Question, Comment, Reply
C5-C6 fractures C5-C7 fusion,I'm a c3-5 fusion that behaves closer to a c5-c6 because it's incomplete. Feel free to messageC5-C6 fractures C5-C7 fusion,Central cord syndrome is a type of spinal cord injury where only part of your spinal cord at a particular neurological level is damaged and the result is, it affects the upper limbs more than the lower. 

You could also have some kind of peripheral nerve disease if your brachial nerves, or a virus affecting them, but given you mentioned symptoms outside of just your arms, I’d think Central cord syndrome.C5-C6 fractures C5-C7 fusion,well c8 does not exist from what i remember, but im c6/7 so real close,I fractured my c5 and c6 and I’m fused from c5-C7. There is no C8 vertebrae but C8 is the alphanumerical label for the section of spinal cord running along the C7-T1 vertebrae of the cervical spineC5-C6 fractures C5-C7 fusion,I’m a c5 quad if you want to talk about anything contact me via Instagram @kayceebeastsPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Where my quad friends @,I wrote this blog post about disability products which could help to make life easier. Hope you find it useful  [https://quadlifeblog.com/2018/04/01/5-disability-products/](https://quadlifeblog.com/2018/04/01/5-disability-products/),Thanks I’ll check it outWhere my quad friends @,Service dogs are pricey and come with a huge commitment. But I think they can do more for someone in a chair than almost any single gadget, helping with doors, picking up objects, operating switches, alerting nearby people that their owner needs help, even pulling a manual chair (I've seen a German Shepherd do this). Plus all the intangible, mental benefits that come with dog companionship--god knows we could all do with extra emotional support and unconditional love.

It's a lot of money, and real time, energy and responsibility have to be devoted to the dog. It's not for everyone. But it can be a huge help, especially for people who want to be out and about in the world.,Thanks might be too Much responsibility I physically won’t be able to care for the dogWhere my quad friends @,i'm c6/7, are you a new injury? complete?,Incomplete a few years in but I was in a nursing home for a while But now I’m in the real world & not as much help so things are difficultWhere my quad friends @,Quadtools.com

They have some really great products for us quads. I personally have the reacher and the knife,Thanks i might grab the reacher myselfPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Ive lived with Spinal Cord Injury for 14 years. I live outdoors. Heres how I use a catheter in the woods! this was my biggest hurtle for getting back outdoors!!! I really hope this helps someone!!!,My name is Zach and I have a spinal cord injury too! Look at that that’s crazy,#teamzach !!! 😂Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Check it out,Calling bullshit on the $200 part, mine isn't full standing like that and cost me over 3k. Other than that it looks good,If it's made in India for people in India, than that price probably makes sense.Check it out,Would love this for my husbandPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Please help me understand,"An incomplete injury means that the ability of the spinal cord to convey messages to or from the brain is not completely lost. Additionally, some sensation (even if it’s faint) and movement is possible below the level of injury.

A complete injury is indicated by a total lack of sensory and motor function below the level of injury."

https://www.christopherreeve.org/living-with-paralysis/newly-paralyzed/how-is-an-sci-defined-and-what-is-a-complete-vs-incomplete-injury,Awesome. Thank you for sharing!Please help me understand,https://asia-spinalinjury.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/International_Stds_Diagram_Worksheet.pdf

> Actually imagine what to expect before I see the individual.

Well, the ASIA scalle doesn't tell everything, as it uses muscle strength as a grade for motor function, but there may be other motor symptoms present (spasticity, tremor, etc).

And different causes for the injury create different patterns of symptoms. Many, but not all SCIs are due to trauma, some are due to tumors or cysts, etc.,Ok, hmm, good to know. Thank you for this worksheet! You're awesome. This will def help with my studies.Please help me understand,The ASIA scale, by way of a physical exam, attempts to evaluate two elements of an individual's SCI, "level of injury" and "completeness." It conducted in a very technical and precise manner in order to be reliable for clinical and research purposes. 

The "level of injury" is basically how low on the body (or really the spinal cord), the injury is. It is the lowest "normal" level where there is no spinal cord injury. So a C5 injury would at the 5th cervical vertebral level. T12 would be in your thoracic spinal cord at the level of the 12th thoracic vertebral level. As you move down the spinal cord, you gain more functional areas of the body. 

The ASIA grade (A, B, C, D, or E) reflects level of completeness. In fact, it's redundant to say ASIA B incomplete as it's already reflected more precisely in the "B."

There are very technical guidelines for these but for gestalt purposes.

ASIA A= Motor and Sensory Complete (No motor or sensory bypassing the level of the injury)
ASIA B= Sensory Incomplete (Sensation bypassing the level but not motor)
ASIA C= Motor Incomplete (The scale that the ASIA developed from classified these as motor incomplete "functionally useless," essentially it was proposed that those of ASIA C would not be able to walk)
ASIA D= Motor Incomplete (This came from "functionally useful" and the thought that those with ASIA D would be able to walk).
ASIA E= Person with Spinal Cord Injury but no deficits on ASIA exam (they've returned to normal or have deficits in other domains)

This is just a rough description. It's possible to be a C4 ASIA A and walk with without assistive devices at all with essentially full use of your arms. So keep in mind this exam isn't the end all.

Don't feel too bad, I have residents who will be specialists in SCI who have difficulty getting the ASIA at first.,I am sorry but can you explain how a C level ASiA A can walk? I am a T8 ASIA A and my ability to walk is on par with my ability to fly.,Thank you for explaining this to me. No wonder I was getting confused! Oh! Now I understand. Thank you for making it click. The advances in assistive devices are amazing. It's so wonderful to see the options out there. And it's great you point out that's not the end all. People are incredible and I never want to limit them to what a piece of paper says. That's how you halt progress!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I have an indwelling catheter in but cannot feel it and am not paralyzed below the waist, is that nerve damage,We are not doctors. Please seek medical attention.I have an indwelling catheter in but cannot feel it and am not paralyzed below the waist, is that nerve damage,Seek professional help. In all possible areas.I have an indwelling catheter in but cannot feel it and am not paralyzed below the waist, is that nerve damage,Do you have a spinal cord injury? You need to be more specific as this is a subreddit for people with spinal cord injuries and I could give you a better opinion if I knew why you're using an indwelling catheter,Can’t feel bladder at all it’s all numb I think it’s nerve dAmageI have an indwelling catheter in but cannot feel it and am not paralyzed below the waist, is that nerve damage,If I yanked it out, like I was pulling a ripcord, I’m guessing you’d feel it,Yeah but I don’t feel it in AdaPosted Question, Comment, Reply
The NKAR System for anyone here who enjoys camping I found a very easy DIY tarp shelter system. No Knots Adaptive Ridgeline! Check this out if you like camping or deal with limited finger dexterity!,I have seen a bunch of videos talking about quick deploy or hasty ridgelines. I deal with Spinal Cord Injury so I try to make gear as easy to use and fast to put up as possible. So I came up with my NKAR System for those who want speed or deal with limited finger dexterity. NKAR (No Knot Adaptive Ridgeline) System for those out Tarp and Hammock Camping!  No knots to tie once it's put together. My video link to follow.The NKAR System for anyone here who enjoys camping I found a very easy DIY tarp shelter system. No Knots Adaptive Ridgeline! Check this out if you like camping or deal with limited finger dexterity!,https://youtu.be/x7hhiwmJQx8The NKAR System for anyone here who enjoys camping I found a very easy DIY tarp shelter system. No Knots Adaptive Ridgeline! Check this out if you like camping or deal with limited finger dexterity!,For quads that have limited finger function and can walk.,This can be used from a wheel chair as well.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
"There's going to be a cure soon.",And getting sent or tagged in every SCI treatment article,That bothers me. And hearing that “oh this one guy I know was paralyzed but he recovered so I’m sure you will, too” shit really bothers me."There's going to be a cure soon.",People don’t know what to say. They’re just trying to be nice but end up being annoying.

Edit: I think half of them say this to make themselves feel better. I'd say the most frustrating thing, aside from the physical aspects of the injury, is the unwanted pity.,More like obnoxious these kinds of people  - they need  to  STFU!"There's going to be a cure soon.",23 years post injury this fall

One of the bad things is when one says “that must be terrible,” because on one hand, it is - lack of access, dating life is tough, no more hiking/bike riding, etc - but a lot of what is tough is caused by society and not my injury.

On the other hand, I am a tenured college professor with research and professional respect. In spite of society’s part in my lack of access, I have a good career.

I must say, though, I’d take a shot at not being disabled by gambling on a fix, as long as the treatment wouldn’t make my ability worse."There's going to be a cure soon.",Yeah, me, too.  It tends to remind me that most people see me as broken.  After 20 years that gets old.  When I was first injured it didn't bother me as much.  But now that I've had two decades to accept my life as is, it's annoying to interact with others who obviously haven't accepted it like I have.  Don't get me wrong, if there's a cure I'll take it blah blah blah.  

What I find quite interesting is that people who talk to us about curing our conditions don't really have any clue about the kinds of intense emotions that kind of talk can dredge up in some of us.  It's like, "Hey, you know that most painful and difficult thing in your life you deal with everyday, that thing that cut you to your core, killed your dreams and fundamentally changed how you see yourself?  Well, they've fixed a fraction of that in an animal that's not even close to humans, and human trials -- which probably won't happen -- are at least 10 years away!  So, you know, don't give up hope! *finger guns*",> Well, they've fixed a fraction of that in an animal that's not even close to humans

They can't fix a fresh, clean SCI in an animal. I am not getting my hopes up before they can repeatably demonstrate that they can. (And in my case, there's the tumor issue and the fact that part of my spinal cord never developed in the first place. But when the understanding of nerve cell biology and the ability to manipulate cells on a molecular level has expanded enough to allow fixing SCIs, I assume these will be minor additional issues)."There's going to be a cure soon.",I'm sure I can take my fusion-powered, fully autonomous flying car to the treatment center then."There's going to be a cure soon.",hardest part of rehab for me was not having family and friends accept reality."There's going to be a cure soon.",As far as I can see, a real cure will involve crazy molecular biologic wizardry by somehow re-growing tons of nerve cells and making them assume the connections that were lost.

Curing cancer sounds easy compared to that. Curing cancer can be done by destroying every single cancer cell in the body while leaving the rest alive. No reconstruction of anything is necessary."There's going to be a cure soon.",Upvote for Caterpillar Toenails.


My pet peeve is that when I meet someone. She wants to 'fix me' and wants to drag me to some doctor that she knows. Every. Damn. Time."There's going to be a cure soon.",My Dad tells me this. He sees I'm down and only wants to fix it. I'm not holding my breath though until one of these trials looks past the medical pump I've had installed."There's going to be a cure soon.",My advice - get busy livin'. The "cure could be decades off still."There's going to be a cure soon.",I hope there’s a cure soon. My trial I was in basically bumped my injury level down a couple levels real quick. And it’s still healing, but I would say naturally now? If that’s even a thing? What irks me is when people say how sorry they are about what happened to me.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Diet and neuropathy pain and health,Unfortunately, as you suggest neuropathic pain is a difficult problem. For my patients that have failed the above treatments, these would be some of my next options.

Lyrica- Works by similar mechanism as gabapentin. I've had a few patients who have had surprising success switching between the two.

Other antiepileptics- Topiramate and valproic acid can be helpful for some patients. 

Opioids- Although I recommend and try to minimize opioids as much as possible, for some patients there are no other options. Not all opioids are created equally for neuropathic pain. The ones I would primarily prescribe are buprenorphine and tramadol and tapendatol. Methadone also works well but I  don't prescribe it. 

Tizanadine (and other muscle relaxants)- muscle relaxants, particularly tizanadine can really help some, I've found, particularly if coexisting spasticity. 

Topical agents- Lidocaime and capsaicin. Can be a good adjunctive treatment for some. 

Cognitive behavioral therapy/ pain psychology- some will take this the wrong way but there is usually a psychological component to chronic pain. Even if its learning how to cope with pain, it could be helpful. This is NOT saying it's all in your head. 

Big Guns- Intrathecal ziconotide and spinal cord stimulators- I've seen life changing effects from these but invasive. Would explore the above first.Diet and neuropathy pain and health,Try manual physical therapy

You will need a doctors script for thisDiet and neuropathy pain and health,Neurontin made me exhausted all the time. I would walk into the grocery store and be tired by the end of the first aisle. I hope you find something that works for you. My pain doctor says he would be a millionaire if he could find something that works for neuropathy.Diet and neuropathy pain and health,Seems to be a very common problem, I would suggest going through the subreddit and looking up other posts about pain and see if there's any Solutions there. I know so many people who are on a bunch of opiates but does nothing for neuro pain. If you do find something that works though please post because you may help someone else.Diet and neuropathy pain and health,I am a T-6 Para x 29 years. 

I have severe Nocturnal Clonus which I manage with a combination of exercise, FES bike stimulation and CBD products. I recommend you try these before any more pharmaceuticals.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Hospital boredom,Stand up comedy was my favorite entertainment. What is your level? I'm c5/6 and I can game on my phone. Currently playing call of duty mobile and it's pretty fun. There's other games I'm sure you can find one you can play. Just keep trying.. learn a new language or read books? What are your interests before getting injured?,I definitely love stand-up comedy. I am C4 level I have some games I even tried yet but I think if I set my phone up in landscape mode I can give it a go. Angry Birds Plants vs Zombies Fallout vault etcetera I tried Duolingo for languages but I thought it was crap. Before my injury my hobbies were martial arts climbing and triathlons so no luck there lol I also like writing when I was younger so I'm going to try and give that to go using dragon speech softwareHospital boredom,PODCASTS! since my injury podcasts have become huge in my life,For some reason they have a hard time getting into podcasts do you recommend any in particular I've always liked the Joe Rogan ExperienceHospital boredom,Audiobooks?! Also you can PM if you want to chat to someoneHospital boredom,Watching anything on TV that comes on at a predictable time helped me when I had a 3 month stay.,I think I've seen every broadcast on Netflix lol I'm glad that help for youHospital boredom,I would suggest getting a tablet. Like a phone but better for gaming/videos/browsing the web. And a blue tooth speaker imo. Good sound is underappreciated lol. If you are going to be in bed most of the time a exercise band would be good. You can tie it to the bed frame and do many different exercises.,I do have a tablet not sure how I can set it up as I have no wrist or finger functionHospital boredom,If you have an Android device or even better a tablet, I'll send you links for apps that I use to help keep you occupied while you wait. PM me anytime.,Legend will doHospital boredom,Maybe you can listen to some classical music, my favourite piece is the Chopin ballade no.1, very beautiful.Hospital boredom,There is a great app for your phone called Pod Kicker and another called Player FM. They are both podcast aggregator apps. You can browse what's popular or search specific names or topics. Then if you want it can reccomend other similar podcasts. I have a list of about 50 that I enjoy greatly. Mostly science and history. Dan Carlin is exceptional in his Hardcore History podcast. Extremely long and detailed while not boring or riddled with numbers that lose all meaning quickly. 

If you would like any suggestions or a list of the podcasts I have found just let me know. I can even share an email that has all of my podcast subscriptions on it and it will add them to yours.  There are payed versions of both apps but the free versions are fine. I hope this helps. Good luck.,Thank you very much I'll send you a PMHospital boredom,For workouts: what level is your injury, are you complete or incomplete, and what function do you have?,I am C4 incomplete I'm able to use my upper back shoulders and biceps recently I've been practicing leaning forward and backwards and I have some control.
The only problem with that is I need some supervision because if I go too far I get stuck laying in my lap lol.Hospital boredom,Have you tried audio books? Or for learning stuff some of the crash course series on YouTube are interesting.

Hospital is bloody dull, hope you get to escape soon.,hospital is awful - somewhat luckily for me, I was in a coma and have a brain injury, so I was somewhere else for the first month or so after my injury 

of course, brain injury, but I look for bright spots - stupid optimist,Crash courses on YouTube is a good idea. Yeah I'm going to give audiobooks ago I have the Witcher last wish The Hobbit and a few other fantasy and neurological books to look into. I think the hardest part about audiobooks is some narrators sucks so bad.Hospital boredom,Is there anything you want to learn more about? Consider taking courses through Kahn academy.,Thank you I will look into thatHospital boredom,it's already been suggested but audible is great.,Thank you for the recommendationHospital boredom,I listened to so many hours of dungeons and dragon podcasts or audible

Also tried to learn another language with podcasts but I’m not the brightest and suck at English enough already on its ownHospital boredom,Any interest in learning or mostly entertainment? Not sure I understand how you use specific devicesHospital boredom,iPad and noise cancelling head phones Bose if you’ve got the dosh!,I got those headphones they are the shit only annoying thing is with headphones hard to put on and off as a quad unless you have good range and a bit of strength in the wristsHospital boredom,I almost went mad from sleep deprivation in the unit I was there for 8 months ish. Beeping and snoring bastards! 
Also electric toothbrush 👌
Something I wish I did was dictate more about my daily experience. 
Get proper therapy as soon as you can. :),Definitely I just managed to secure some transitional accommodation so I have been out of hospital for a week now. Sleep and privacy was the biggest reason to get out. Still trying to find ways to stay active as it's quite boring still but I'm getting there.Hospital boredom,wish I new where ya are.,New South Wales AustraliaPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Quads with 24 hour care needs,I have 2 live–in carers but one is on at a time. Each one works 10 days on then 10 days off.  I also live with my parents which helps when carers need to have a night off or go home early.,Interesting set up.. when they are working 10 days on, what are their shifts? Do you require overnight care as well?Quads with 24 hour care needs,I have between 4-6 care givers at any given time. All of them stay at least 24hr shifts. One care giver lives out of town quite far so she does 4-5 days at a time 2x a month. Then I have two-three that do 2-3 days each week. Then I have one that does one day a week and another that can do like one or two a month. 

Since no one works for very long chunks and usually have a number of free days between their shifts, then burnout is minimized. 

I tried to keep things fair and not have one person always working weekends (unless it’s what they want). And I make the schedule out for a month so everyone knows when they’re supposed to be here.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Life Changing Power of the Lateral Rotating Mattress - no more pressure sores!!!,I’m glad this mattress seems to be working for your family.
As for as not wrapping your head around why professionals don’t recommend them more often... my understanding is that research does not support that these mattresses replace the need for a caregiver to turn the user at regular intervals. I would be happy to read any research (not sponsored by a mattress manufacturer) that suggests otherwise.  Without the research, it would be very difficult to justify purchase to an external payor source.  The situations in which I have heard them being paid for, were when the caregiver physically needed assistance for turning the user... that is, the caregiver needed an extra bit of help that a top sheet wouldn’t be able to provide.
Disclaimer: I don’t provide mattresses, but my colleagues doLife Changing Power of the Lateral Rotating Mattress - no more pressure sores!!!,
Here is a lower-cost alternative that varies the pressure throughout the night. Less than $100 and quite helpful to me.  
Med Aire Mattress Pad System with Alternating Pressure Pump by Drive Medical  
https://thewheeledwonder.wordpress.com/2018/05/05/great-product-med-aire-mattress-pad-system-with-alternating-pressure-pump-by-drive-medical/Posted Question, Comment, Reply
I've dealt with SCI for 14 years due to a tumor removal. Do we have any other campers in the group?,I was an avid backpacker, hiker, and climber before I had a climbing accident December of 2018. I'm an L1 incomplete para who can walk with lofstrand crutches.

I've gotten back to Climbing and now climb at my gym 2+ times per week and I've gone on a few outdoor climbing trips with an amazing adaptive climbing group called Paradox Sports. But I'm hoping to start hiking and camping on my own more this year once it warms up now that I'm further out from my injury and have had more recovery. 

What's your injury level/presentation like? Have you done much camping post injury?,I'm an SCI walker, no chair. My tumor was removed between T11 and L1. Two years later I had to have an AV Spinal Fistula repaired. Took me 2 years to get away from a walker and a cane. That was back in 2006. I've been doing this type of camping for the last 4 years. I've camped all my life. You can go see what I do and how I walk over at Half Pace Outdoors on YouTube. I do a lot of camping lolI've dealt with SCI for 14 years due to a tumor removal. Do we have any other campers in the group?,I used to be a huge backpacker, hiker, camping all sorts of outdoors stuff but unfortunately im a t8 complete para. So I have no way to walk and I've yet to find a way to take a wheelchair on a trail or find a way to camp without an rv or something.,Hey go check this girls channel out she has some useful info for people in a wheel chair! She can probably help you more than I could.

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCDsUIsIjWQnjYcwf4eWdm-QI've dealt with SCI for 14 years due to a tumor removal. Do we have any other campers in the group?,Not exactly camping, but we did some bush walk trails recently with my partner who's a T4 complete para. That was a challenge! Came across some stairs and he was game enough to want to wheelbarrow his way up the stairs - as in get out of the chair and climb up facing down using his hands while I held his legs!,Hey at least you guys are getting out there!!!I've dealt with SCI for 14 years due to a tumor removal. Do we have any other campers in the group?,This is what I miss the most. Backpacking, hiking, and camping. It's amazing that accessible trails and campsites exist, but they are too manicured for my liking. Being out in nature and confined to a neatly paved trail makes the experience worse for me. Plus all the equipment and supplies needed for me to camp somewhere is ridiculous. The hassle is not worth it.

Take an extra breath of fresh air for both of us next time you're out there.I've dealt with SCI for 14 years due to a tumor removal. Do we have any other campers in the group?,I want to go camping so bad, I haven’t been since I could walk (I’m 4 years out). My problem rn is that I live in Florida and I’m in college, so my only free time to go is summer and it gets way too hot for camping. I’m also a little nervous about my bowel program when I go but I haven’t put much thought into planning a trip yet.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
ALONE,Go out. Meet people. Go to pubs/bars. Join Meet ups. Lots of people willing to overlook the chair.ALONE,Luckily my important friends stayed around after my fall. I’m not very social, but get just enough to not feel totally isolated. There’s something about old friends that livens up your soul.

May not be relatable to your situation, but is there an old best friend you can reach out to? Someone you may believe is gone forever, but you guys had shared times together that you still think about? They may be closer than you think and wonder how you’re doing. Sometimes a call or text is all it takes. 

Good luck, man. 30 years is beyond respectable living like this.,thank ya for the last comment, I'm half tempted to go pick up a drunk but that only lasts a night or two, and even though I am lookin for a female I am not particularly lookin for sex. I wouldn't say no to it but i don't get anything out of it  just work.ALONE,I am a T-6 Para x 29 years and managed to stay 100% independent while raising a family and holding down a career. It is hard to be social with SCI, because we are treated differently and the injury aftermath shapes our personality into a different being ( who has time for socializing when you are constantly in survival mode?). But your mental health is at stake.
What I recommend is that you get involved with Adaptive Sports such as hand cycling. It can be a very social experience and many communities have organized cycling groups and events. Also basketball and rugby and snow skiing. Even ATV off-roading clubs. Find your nearest Adaptive Sports chapter and reach out. Your health and wellness is also a huge side benefit!ALONE,I met my partner on good old bumble. He’s t1 incomplete. 
For some people they won’t be able to see past it but I’m sure many will. Never phased me. I guess maybe try some new things, we go clay pigeon shooting together. He met a lot of people there.,WHAT IS good old bumble, I want to meet new people but don't know where to go besides a bar , I don't like alcohol and I haven't met a single female in my 30yrs.  I need to talk to a female voice , are there any single females in americaALONE,I thank you for your responce   'we are both t-6 i would reall y like to talk about other things twoALONE,Hi there.

Your post brings a tear to my eye. My boyfriend is a T10 Incomplete and uses a manual chair. Him and I have been together for three years. He wasn’t initially in a chair when I met him. Had a blood clot on his spine due to Mrsa. ANYWAYS. He is the most handsome man I have ever seen even in the chair. I don’t notice it. Other people might but who gives a damn. You shouldn’t let your fear of people only seeing your chair hold you back. This injury has been horrible but the one thing I can say is it really shows you who’s with you and who’s not. 

Cheers.ALONE,I hope you're feeling alright. Glad to talk with you. I was able to find some info on the interwebs. This is an example of some activities available out there. https://www.friendshipcircle.org/blog/2013/02/12/the-three-most-amazing-adaptive-sports-centers-in-the-u-s/   *I'm going to PM you some other stuff :)ALONE,Hey, I am positive you will meet someone if you didn't just yet... My biyfriend is T6-T10 complete and I knew him way before his accident and after 6 years being by his side and he being by my side, we finally realised that there is something more than friendship. The chair is just a piece of equipment and it is overseen by a lot of people we know. :) So don't be afraid to speak to women, use dating apps, maybe call some old friends that might be more than happy to see you. :) You never know what might happen when you reach out. :)ALONE,Hi Weaver, I came across your post and I wanted to share with you. There are many other places you can go besides a bar and definitely meet new people. Check out your community resources in your town. See if they have some sort of a website and it should have local activities. Many places host free events/classes. Also check your local senior center. You may not be old enough to join but they might have information to help you as well or at least point you in the right direction. Use Google to find recreation centers near you. If you don't mind sharing your city I wouldn't mind doing a quick search to see if I can find something. I work in the medical field and I really enjoy helping people expand their horizons. I think it would be great for you to get out and about. I have a lot of respect for you getting along all this time on your own. You are awesome. And I'm proud of you. Now get out there and do your thing! :),Hey just got over a bad couple of months , I thank ya for your response and any input ya can provide . a little help in any way is a good social practice.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
For those with stiffness,I can’t tell you enough how important it is to get a decent range of motion. I fucked myself up permanently by just not moving and now I have contractures in my knees and hips and one finger for some god-awful reason.

I’m on a shit-ton of baclofen to alleviate my spasms.  I take oral baclofen now and I recommend that you at least try it for a week or two to see if it changes your life. It does have a sedative effect but it’s minor compared to the other stuff I’m on. If you find that it makes a terrific, positive change in your life but the side effects are too much, a baclofen pump delivers micrograms instead of milligrams.For those with stiffness,Great tip. Any recommended stretches?,https://youtu.be/purCXL42UA0For those with stiffness,I’ve just started really stretching beyond my PT stretches- similar to how I would have done sitting stretches pre-paraplegia- and it has been a game changer. I kept feeling this god awful tightness whenever I moved. Now I stretch for at least 20 minutes a day- not gone but better. Every small thing helps.For those with stiffness,Be careful stretching if you have osteoporosis or osteopenia, I broke my femur stretching my right leg over my left. Can’t cross my legs to put on shoes either.,This. I broke my femur by using the same movement I was taught in rehab. Just after 15 years my bones couldn't take the stressFor those with stiffness,Stretching really helps especially after a shower. I also use a massage gun and that thing really get the knots out.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Medotronic spinal cord stimulator?,I have one implanted in my sacrum to provide stimulation to my bladder. Lumbar spinal cord damage has affected my ability to release urine. I think I found a program and intensity that provides me with relief.,How long ago did you have it?,How long ago did you have it?,How does this work? How do you program it?,Did you consider other makes? The one being discussed with me is the Abbott BurstDR. In addition to the routine battery replacement (surgery, I presume), any lifespan discussion, or possible occurrence failure at some point? how about going through airport security or getting MRI's? My docs are about 50/50 on whether this is a good route to go for me. My neuro, in particular, isn't a fan of how implant healing/scarring can go- but the trial seems like a reasonable route to go. Happy for ya' on your own experience!,Hiya, my partner has an L1 injury with bladder issues. Are you saying this stimulation device helps you pee on your own?Medotronic spinal cord stimulator?,[deleted],What caused it to fail?Medotronic spinal cord stimulator?,I have had one for almost three years. It did help with my leg pain but not very much. If i had to do it again, I would not get one.,Really? Why?Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Need some advice,Possibly. Any change in the texture or color of your skin, especially on a pressure point like your sacrum warrants a check by a medical professional. If you’ve had issues there before, definitely get it checked out because the skin integrity is not normal there.  In the meantime try to spend as much time offloading that’s area as possible. Hope it’s nothing to worry about.Need some advice,GO GET IT CHECKED NOW! I am currently in the hospital for 6-8 weeks with a butt wound!!!Need some advice,The main thing to check discoloring is if it blanches. If you press on the color (usually red) it should turn white when you lift up then immediately back to red. If it’s consistently white and leathery, I would imagine it’s scar tissue from previous wounds. But it’s nothing to mess with either way, get it checked immediately if you’re concerned. 

I had a stage 4 right above my crack after getting out of the hospital. I’m sure you know, but weekly debriding at the wound clinic, and daily nurse visits to change bandages, is something you definitely want to avoid. Took 7 months to heal mine, but the remaining tissue is still leathery and discolored. Lighter than the surrounding tissue. Good luck, man. Get it checked out,Same thing happened to me, except it got infected 4 months in and they had to cut a bunch out. Took about 18 months to fully heal. Sucked big timeNeed some advice,Whenever I get worried about my old wound bed, even if it feels irrational, I go to Wound Care and have them look at it. It could be old scar tissue, or it could be something new; don't risk it.Need some advice,No one here can tell you for sure; it's definitely a good idea to have  Dr. look at it.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Exercises and weight loss,We’re always gonna have bellies, unfortunately. Without core/abdomen muscles, it will always pop out...especially when seated. An abdominal binder helps a lot, but I finally got sick of putting them on and making sure it wasn’t fkn up my skin. 

A c5 injury should allow you to use a hand peddler, with wraps if needed for cardio to burn calories. And any weight lifting you can pull off will burn calories and drop weight. It’s hard to drop weight when 100% of your muscles work. With only 25-30% of mine working it’s so hard to drop weight, but I’m doing it. 

I’ve tried to cut sugar, heavy protein for skin health, and only 1200-1500 calories if I’m doing it right. SCI is such a bitch. If you eat wrong, you can be consistently hungry and still gain weight. Good luck, dude,Thank you so much I really appreciate your help my accident was 4 years ago so is there anything else I need to know?Exercises and weight loss,Have you tried arm ergometer with wrist hooks? I also recommend adaptive swimming. Some areas have adaptive gyms associated with their spinal cord injury centers.,Thank you so much I’ll research that I never heard of it beforeExercises and weight loss,Dang bro that’s deep but I thought of that but just sucks for me because I’ve never done anything before my accident so you got to actually do some crazy things as a adult I was only 15-16 and the fat ugly guy that made everybody laugh and looked more as a friend than a significant other and now I’m 21 and only experience was a couple of pecks on the lips I know I probably sound like I’m being weak or boo who we have it worse than others but we are all unique but I’m picking up what you’re putting down,I don't have sci, but getting out to a put or something (if you drink) with a group of friends always seems like a good idea. Be yourself, don't try to fake or force anything just for the sake of it.
My partner is c5-6 complete, last year my friend was working for him so I would sometimes meet them both in the pub, and it just went from there. 
I found him attractive from the start though, when I met him as I agreed I could help if my friend was ever off sick or anything like that. 
If you prefer online or anything, your approach is up to you. People are always going to be judgemental and/or arseholes.
Good luck :) xExercises and weight loss,Oh okay I understand I use a electric wheelchair but I have a manual chair I can use it’s just I don’t think I would be strong enough to push myself up a hill but thank you for giving your time to help me out,Of course. Even going for a push on level ground works my heart and cardio harder than the peddler. All my best to you. Keep me postedExercises and weight loss,Thank you so much 😁 by the way what’s the best way to find a woman that would actually talk to me and maybe get more serious,Shit, man, I have no interest tbh. I’m complete so there is literally no motion or sensation below my nipples. Luckily I lived like an asshole before my injury. Had threesomes, dated a wild stripper, was in absolute love a couple times...

Now it doesn’t even hold an interest. Got down with one of my wound care nurses (of all things) and it was only frustrating. It gets your heart rate up, but that’s it for me. Suckin tits and eatin a gorgeous woman straddling your paralyzed body only made me want to blow my brains out lol. 

Some people are good with it, and think pleasing someone along with mental satisfaction is worth it, but to me it’s not. I know what it’s like to be someone’s everything. To know you satisfy them more than anyone on the planet can. If someone falls into my lap, and is good with my company, then so be it. But it’s far from my list of priorities. 

My list is enjoying the day. Good music, good weed and food. Got great at a few video games. Exercise is more stimulating to me than what completes call “sex”. Trying to get an old classic car I restored before my injury converted to hand controls is next. 

Sex and love is one of the greatest things on the planet. But unfortunately my memories are far more satisfying than spinal injury “sex” lol. So I’m on to other shitPosted Question, Comment, Reply
Catheter bypass,I would definitely see a doctor, but you can take medication to stop bladder spasms which helps some people, Tolterodine one of them.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Spasms Suck!!!,My husband has the same problem. Something that helps with immediate relief is CBD. He uses 1000mg full spectrum and a couple drops under the tongue usually gets them to subside after a minute or so. It's not perfect and on really bad days it might not get rid of them completely, but it's helpful.,I've had good results with CBD as well,How does CBD work?  Is that the same thing as pot, I mean do you smoke it?  I've read people using it but I don't know anything about it.Spasms Suck!!!,im a walking c-7, don't use a cane though.

Two important things you need to do

1. Stretch, Stretch, Stretch and Stretch, this will help you a lot with not only walking but also with spasms
2. Go to the gym and make it a lifestyle, if you can get on the treadmill do, if not then hop on a bike or use the Nustep (a lot of planet fitness has them)
3. Look into getting botox in your legs
4. Smoke weed,Thanks. The first two are normal parts of my routine now. I do a good amount of stretching and working out. I was extremely active before the accident and worked out quite a bit (I was one of those CrossFit superstars before the accident. Haha).  I am actually signed up to do a 5k in May and I'm on the treadmill training for that. It's definitely not pretty, by any stretch, but I'm going to do it. They give you an hour and 50 minutes to complete this 5k and right now I'm on Pace for about an hour and 35 minutes so it will be interesting.  Smoking weed is not in the cards for me but I will definitely get more information on Botox. I don't know anything about that at all outside of people attempts to beautify themselves with it.Spasms Suck!!!,Maybe you could take more baclofen before going to bed?  I’m an incomplete c5-c6 and I take all my baclofen before bed. I don’t take as much as you (20mg a day) but my spasms amp up at night too.,I see the doctor on Tuesday and I'm going to ask about that. I have wondered if it was a medication that you have to take the same dosage each time. I definitely feel like I could use it more at night than I do during the day.Spasms Suck!!!,I take 30mg at 22.30.

Get me through the nightSpasms Suck!!!,I'm in the same boat with baclofen. Trying to take 10 in the morning, 10 at around 2, and 30 or 40 at night. Was taking 20 three to four times a day but I get super drowsy. I just can't find the perfect dosage schedule to balance the spasms and drowsiness.Spasms Suck!!!,I am going for my 6th Botox treatment this week...it has helped me immensely...went from severe spasms, contractures in all limbs and hips and barely able to ambulate to recovering like 75% motor functions and able to walk with crutches 

C5/C6 IncompleteSpasms Suck!!!,I personally use the cbd lotion my pain doctor uses. It’s “RX strength” (I don’t remember the actual dose) and guaranteed no thc so it won’t pop a drug screen (some cbd has tiny amounts of thc in them. Not enough for you to feel, but enough to pop a test. Be wary of that.). I’ll rub it on my legs and my partner helps by rubbing it into my back and arms. I’m c5-C6 incomplete, too, and your post pretty much described my spasms exactly. Good luck. If you find anything that helps a lot post it so we can try it too!!Spasms Suck!!!,I’m T-6 and I have horrible spasms and nocturnal Clonus and started using CBD. It worked so well I developed my own line of CBD products, which my wife and I sell in our  local store and on the Web. I would definitely recommend trying CBD before Botox or a Baclofen pump!Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Don't know what I want to do with my life.,Just don’t do what I did and isolate myself to depression gets so bad you can hardly fill out your own paper work at the doctors office. Please take care of your body and MIND. I suggest finding your passion, whatever it may be and following it. Forget salary, forget purpose. Just always know the real purpose if that you have a second chance and a different outlook on life than most people. Use your strengths and say fuck the weaknesses. Please dig deep, stay strong, and never give up. Once you go down the rabbit hole of depression it will change you. Stay strong. Follow your heart. Help others when you can. Your lucky to be alive.,This is very true 
Isolation is comforting 
I did the same 
But know this 
It’s the path of the pussy! :) 
It’s not a path to any happiness either before or after your accident so don’t be seduced by the “comfort” in hiding. 
If it’s painful and or stressful chances are you doing some right. 
There no courage without fear
That being said. 
For the first few years take it easy on your selfDon't know what I want to do with my life.,C4/5 incomplete quad since 07. 

I'd recommend looking for something that you can do or eventually do remotely and/or online. You would be surprised to find that you have or can learn skill sets that require zero mobility like public speaking, writing etc that can be applied to many industries. Take your time and try to engage with as many people as possible. Sometimes, what you're meant you do is something you've never event thought about. 

I taught myself Photoshop, basic web design, online marketing, etc and started off by turning a hobby into a business. I'm now completely online only and looking to continue learning and build up my skill stack.Don't know what I want to do with my life.,Accounting could be some good money though.,Yeah, that's why i was thinking of choosing it lol.Don't know what I want to do with my life.,I'm a little biased but if you're interested in psychology, have you considered going into counseling? Your perspective could be very impactful.,I thought this as well! If you can be fully present, understand different theories and apply them, and speak well, you might be able to be effective as a therapist. 

I didn’t have a passion going into school either, so I just decided to go with psychology. I got my Bachelors, and I loved what I was learning so went on for a Masters and work as therapist now. It’s interesting , every day is something different, the work is meaningful and can pay well. 

It’s worth taking a couple psych classes and seeing how you feel about them!Don't know what I want to do with my life.,Do you like writing?,Not really, but Im trying to get more into it.Don't know what I want to do with my life.,develop a passion in something - really will help you in lifeDon't know what I want to do with my life.,I’m 26 yo c6/7 accountant. The money isn’t bad, the opportunity is there. Solid job security. It’s not a super fun job but it’s a good one. You are still young and can always switch careers but having a bed to fall back on is better then the floor, especially as a quad...Don't know what I want to do with my life.,Mate the one thing the injury does give is time. Lots of it. We live life in the slow lane, for sure, but that doesn’t mean we cant enjoy the journey we make any less. 
Just take what ever feels right for now. It’s it doesn’t work out fuck it. You can always re train. Loads of my mates did that anyway.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Best voice activated remote control for smart tv,I use Logitech harmony plugged into Apple homekit using homebridge. It’s quite easy, following online instructions if you know your way around coding,Thanks for the suggestion. Don't know my way around coding unfortunately but I can try to figure it out.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Spinal Cord Injury MD Available for Questions,Can you talk about what, if any, advancements have been made in the area of sexual pleasure/sensation for both male and female SCI patients, complete and/or incomplete?  This is a pretty hot topic around here, pun intended.  If you can't really speak to any new studies or info, what has been your experience with people you've treated?  Any tips, tricks, meds, or things that we may not know about?

While some/many of us do experience sexual pleasure, a lot of us guys and gals have difficulties with experiencing relief, release, satisfaction, whatever you want to call it.  Some of us also experience low libido, and miss sex.  I think any words of wisdom would be appreciated.,Hi there! I did my dissertation on animal models of sexual function after SCI and am moving on to pre-clinical and clinical research for my career. I’m not an MD, but I would love to talk with you about the current research in this area! My expertise is specifically in erectile function, but I am pretty knowledgeable on sexual and bladder function after SCI as a whole.,Yes, this so much. I am barely hanging on dealing with the poly-trauma as it is. My sexual function being completely gone is galling me.Spinal Cord Injury MD Available for Questions,Thank you.  I appreciate your willingness to try to help.Spinal Cord Injury MD Available for Questions,hi! thank you so much for this. my bf is a c3-5 incomplete and has made incredible gains (walking around the house, can pick up some things and feed himself) he’s still improving at 9months since injury but not as quickly as before. I’m wondering if by recovery plateauing if that means new gains (as in movements) or if it means all like he could stop improving his walk or his pinch won’t get stronger? I’ve heard conflicting things and I’m just so weary!,If he has some movement in that area, for example some pinch, my personal experience with patients has shown that there is room to continue to strengthen it and improve those functions. It becomes increasingly difficult though to gain new function and further recovery, can be as you mentioned, slow and frustrating. I think your boyfriend's situation is a time when the therapy he receives and the modalities they use can be critical. Has he done robotics for walking?Spinal Cord Injury MD Available for Questions,I’m having an issue with doctors not taking my sci seriously. It’s a incomplete to the L1-L4. Bladder/bowel retention, left leg drop foot, bad lower limb atrophy, poor gait. Also ptsd/depression form the accident that has made me very unable to work or even stay on task (I cry doing paper work in doctors offices because im overwhelmed) I was 16 2006 and now I’m 30, I failed myself by never going to the doctors because of lack of insurance and now I can’t even get disability because it seems like my primary or ppl in the ER do not get the severity of my issues. I educated myself highly on my ailments and explain clearly. I can’t afford my carbs anymore if I don’t get disability. The hospital that treated me post wreck doesn’t have my records anymore (2006 much have been only paper docs?)

Anyway I feel hopeless and I stay sick, I’m trying to get a lawyer to help with my claim but how will I ever find a doctor to understand and document my issues in the appropriate way for me to get at least medicade for my quality of life. Idk what I’m really asking but it’s sad I have fallen through the medical systems cracks and live in pain until I waste away...,I'm sorry you're going through all this... It can be difficult on the physician side to give people with spinal cord injuries long term disability given the potential for many people to work. My advice is to keep searching for doctors who understand spinal cord injuries. 

Also, keep the focus on medical improvement because, ultimately, the goal is to get better. I'm not saying this is the case, but many physicians won't want to help with the social security issue if they don't know you and it's the first thing you ask for coming through the door. If they get to know you and your medical history and all the things you've tried, it might help them better understand your need for social services. 

I also recommend getting a case manager or social worker to help in addition to a lawyer. There are things like potentially getting a consultive exam without your own physician being involved.

I just mentioned this in another thread, but I'm a huge proponent of medicare for all. We have the ability to make it happen next election cycle if we all do our part to advocate from both the physician and patient perspective. The amount of waste in insurance and administration is staggering.Spinal Cord Injury MD Available for Questions,Welcome, in your experience, long term what type of recovery have you seen? I was almost completely paralyzed eleven months ago, but now am some where between an ASIA c-d. I know everyone is different but have you seen any people improving multiple years later? Thanks for being here.,I'm glad to hear you've had some neurologic recovery. In general most recovery happens early. It would looks somewhat like an exponential curve with  less recovery with time. Most recovery happens by 6 months and plateaus at 9 months (but doesn't equal zero). Recovery in some can go to 2 years but is generally small. After 2 years one is as likely to get better or get worse. 

Three huge caveats

This is only neurologic recovery not functional recovery

There are individuals who have had late (>5 year) recovery. Usually this is associated with some sort of new therapy or treatment. 

 There is some very very exciting research being done and I'm optimistic about a cure one day,May I ask what between C & D is like? Are you walking at all?,Oh also to answer your question, yes I've seen people with incomplete injuries make gains years later.Spinal Cord Injury MD Available for Questions,Hey! I’m a PT with a patient (L1/2 Incomplete ASIA maybe C or D. 5 years post injury. His biggest issues are neuropathic pain (constant) and LE swelling when he’s in a dependent position. We’re working on getting him a chair that allows him to raise his legs, but the pain is his biggest inhibitor. He takes gaba and oxy, but they barely control it. He has tried Lyrica but it wasn’t as effective. This guy would be a candidate for walking if we could figure out a way to control the pain. Any suggestions?,I have had great luck with lidocaine infusions for my neuropathic pain.,Well there's lots of medication options for neuropathic pain. Topical treatments such as capsaicin and topical lidocaine can be effective for some but difficult if area of pain is diffuse. From a therapy perspective, have you tried desensitization techniques, compression wrapping (good for edema and afferent input for pain), contrast baths, etc. Edema can cause discomfort and pain independently and also should be managed. 

Pharm wise there's also a lot of options. Things to consider would be tcas, snris, tizanadine, some opiates (tramadol, methadone, butrans), and other antiepileptic. There's other treatments like intrathecal ziconotide but that's much further down the line. 

It's also important to rule out that nothing is causing his neuropathic pain like unregulated bowel and bladder or skin problems.Spinal Cord Injury MD Available for Questions,Hi! I’m a T12/L1 incomplete injury. It was from a car crash. I’m currently in a clinical trial where they put a spinal cord scaffolding on my spinal cord in the area of injury and cleared away dead tissue and debris from the swelling around my cord at less than 72 hours after my injury. That was 3 years ago. I have a million questions, but I’ll tell you about my recovery first. 

Most of my function and sensation came back early. I went from being unable to move both legs to a weak kick in my legs a couple days after my surgery. 6 months later I was walking with braces and locked legs and a walker about 30 feet. My function comes back in bursts. I hurt my tailbone 3 months ago and I got a burst of function back. I went from walking an average of 65 feet to 150 feet with my right leg unlocked. But with this burst came more sensation and pain. I started getting hamstring spasms in my left leg that HURTS and none of my other myoclonic spasms hurt. This one is an exaggerated spasm that feels like the tendons in the back of my knee are ripping and my butt is left just sore and fatigued. I know it’s a common problem for people with injuries like mine to have spasms. It’s just weird that it started right after I hurt my tailbone. I also was finally able to ejaculate a month ago. I’ll find out in a week through MRI if I have a PCL and other ligaments and how the cartilage is in that knee because it’s really bothering me and I’ve been told there’s something going on in that knee by PTs. I’m worried these spasms will affect any surgery I might need in the knee. I also have osteopenia in my knee and just found that out a week ago. I started taking calcium and vitamin D to try and stop the osteopenia and get it back to a more healthy level. 

I guess my question is why do regular doctors look at me like I’m a normal patient? I’m going to a SCI doctor in a few weeks because I’ve had doctors say I’m constipated because I have to do a bowel program. I’ve had a doctor give me an emergency arterial doppler because my feet swell a little if they’re down all day. Doppler was normal BTW. They just think I’m a normal 30 year old when I’m not. Some of the things that are going on with me are normal paraplegic things.,This is a great question and something I've actually thought about. You don't know how frustrating it is when a provider misses autonomic dysreflexia or acute abdomen in someone with SCI.

 I think there are two main reasons, lack of training and lack of experience.

In terms of lack of training, unfortunately medical school and residency tends to be more focused on acute illnesses/hospitalizations although this is starting to change.

I think the larger issue is lack of experience. Despite strong communities and advocacy groups, SCI is relatively uncommon. Keep in mind that only about 300,000 individuals in the US have an SCI. Compare this to 5.6 million with tbi related disability or 1 million with MS. It wouldn't be surprising if some doctors have NEVER seen a patient with a spinal cord injury or maybe 1 or 2. That makes it difficult to be comfortable and know about treating this unique population. That's why I think it's important to see an SCi physician, at least on occasion, who sees people with SCI every day and knows how to treat them and what's "normal"Spinal Cord Injury MD Available for Questions,what i would like to know.. has there been any advancements in treating cauda equada syndrome? about 10 years ago i had emergency surgery to treat cauda equada ,to relieve pressure. left with permanent damage,yet ssdi is still reviewable every 3 years as if it isn't. saddle numbness and altered sensation never went away and particular muscles just gone. example- my right toes cant fan out. can't sit with feet on floor or they painfully swell. along with incontinence and bowl issues.  yet no treatment other than the initial surgery and neurological meds. is that all there is?,The difficulty with government and social services is one of the hardest parts of my job so I  feel the frustration. 

As far as new treatments, there hasn't been any overarching fixes to the actual damage to the cauda equina. For the issues listed there may be other treatments depending on the specific issue. For example, sacral neuromodulation may help with certain bowel or bladder issues. There is no one treatment unfortunately to regenerate the cauda equina.Spinal Cord Injury MD Available for Questions,are you (eg) a physiatrist? neurologist? I've never heard of a 'spinal cord injury MD'.,Physiatrist with a fellowship in Spinal Cord Injury medicine. SCI medicine is a fellowship that you can enter from any field but the vast majority, likely 90+% are PM&R trained. Abpmr.org has more info on the field and you can search for providers in your area.Spinal Cord Injury MD Available for Questions,Hi. I’m 18 months post SC infection. Left me aC4 incomplete quad.  I’ve done a tremendous amount of PT and gym work and now I can walk, have regained most of my right arm/hand function. My bladder and bowel is still compromised as is sexual function. Although I was able to get rid of the SPT tube. My major problems now (besides pain ) are spastic muscles in my back and legs. My surgery was a cut from neck to lumbar so many muscles and fascia were cut. I do stretches, massage, hot tubs and gym work but the spasticity stays rendering me very immobile and with poor balance. I’ve been taking 75 mg/day of baclofen and 1200 mg/day of gabapentin. I have very little feeling below waist. I’d like to get the tightness out which is behind my knees making walking difficult. Also like to reduce tightness in my back making mobility difficult. Can you offer any further suggestions? Thank you for being here for us!,Congrats on the recovery you've experienced thus far. There are many other medications that can be considered. My next steps would typically be tizanadine, dantrium, and occasionally a benzodiazepine. Botox and intrathecal baclofen pumps can be life changing depending on the degree and the amount of muscles effected. 

A good aquatic therapist can do wonders and a robotics/exoskeleton/lokomat program can be helpful to restore normal gait pattern (although there would have to be a consideration of how much spasticity you have).Spinal Cord Injury MD Available for Questions,[deleted],I think in the future, it will be a combination of treatments that will lead to a cure and less likely to be one golden treatment. I described some of the potential treatments in another comment reply.

Dr. Boninger from Pitt really said it much better than I could ever say it at a speech at SCI2020, an SCI conference last year. [https://videocast.nih.gov/summary.asp?live=30194&bhcp=1](https://videocast.nih.gov/summary.asp?live=30194&bhcp=1) His speech starts at around 8:45. 

The barriers in spinal cord injury research are the same barriers in all academic research. From my perspective, the biggest problem is the push to get publications/grants is so strong in academic research, that the publication/grant becomes the ultimate outcome and the focus on actual clinical benefit to patients can get pushed aside. It's counter intuitive but I think if the importance of publications was lower in the tenure process, the research produced would be better. Time constraints, pressure for clinical production, funding and the IRB all also limit me personally. 

Spinal cord injury is a difficult problem but in my heart, I know it's not an impossible problem.

I think what the SCI community can do is continue to make your voices heard (which you already do a great job of). If you haven't already, I suggest trying to make it to a conference (ASIA or ASCIP are my recommendations) to learn about what's going on in the field and make your needs known. Join a spinal cord injury patient association. Keep the pressure on for meaningful research and not BS. 

Finally, I think we need a rich donor to make a spinal cord injury prize. Something like $100 million for any meaningful cure and the cure would be public domain/free. I think our field is ripe for a prize and it could help take  pressure off researchers and persuade people from many domains to join in the cure search.Spinal Cord Injury MD Available for Questions,Wow, thank you for doing this! Can you shed some light on why--for male bladder management at least--there's not some sort of indwelling catheter, like a Foley, but which terminates before the exit of the urethra and can be open/closed with a valve placed in the scrotum?

My neurosurgeon told me about such a device, but when I asked my urologist he was dumbfounded and said no such device exists. It seems like a relatively simple approach (coming from someone with absolutely zero medical training lol).,Hmm, I haven't really thought about this question before. I have seen in the past valved catheters on the outside but never something on the inside. My concerns would be potential for occlusion of the catheter without it being able to be flushed, ability to keep the catheter fixed in the right place, and ease of retrieval. I'm also not sure that this would work anatomically.Spinal Cord Injury MD Available for Questions,I'm a c7 sci and suffer with autonomic dysreflexia. I'm a 22yo female, do you think it would be possible for me to have a baby?,Yes, absolutely (although keep in mind I don't know your specific circumstances). My recommendation is to talk to knowledgable providers BEFORE you get pregnant so a plan is in place. This generally means going to a medical center where the OB and the physiatrist work in concert together. I'm not going to lie, there can be challenges both before, during and after the birth of your child, but many people with C7 injuries and a history of AD can have wonderful families.Spinal Cord Injury MD Available for Questions,What is the percentage of nontraumatic SCIs you see?

(Mine is due to a spinal cord tumor.),I have a somewhat unique practice. Probably about half of my SCI patients (I do some other neuro rehab as well) are nontraumatic.Spinal Cord Injury MD Available for Questions,Thank you for your input and it seem I’m going about it the right way. Of course I’d love to be able to run, jump, climb ladders, wait tables, pet sit. But the only reason I can walk is my will power and the fact it was incomplete fracture. Instead of every mentioning disability benefits I usually give stories of how I was treated st past jobs and let go or hours cut because my mental break downs or physical incompatibles with jobs available in my area. Even entrepreneurship was a bust and a business fell in my lap. Really hard to get better when I can afford physical therapy without medical assistance financially. It’s a loop hole. Ignorance is bliss and I wish I would have just stayed in the wheel chair because I have ran myself down trying to maintain a status quo with the world. Thanks for taking the time to respond. Hopefully my lawyer, case worker, and state funded income based therapist will find me something to do. I’ve been down a lot of paths to be better and “normal” and now I’ve came out the darker side with mangled memories, rage fits, anxiety attacks. Put a go pro on me for a year and job shadow me and they would see what it does to me. It’s not safe for me to work in public. I have isolated myself and I can’t stand people who complain and have great quality of life.Spinal Cord Injury MD Available for Questions,When I became injured as a C5 I was told that testosterone levels drop after SCI. Is this true? And why would SCI affect testosterone?

Edit: A few years ago at ~15 years post injury mine was still top 15% of the population (even ignoring SCI) so I assume mine was unaffected.,Well, we (or at least I) don't know. Possible reasons include physical deconditioning/inactivity, increased fat, and people with SCI frequently have concurrent TBI which effects the pituitary axis (sometimes missed). We also know that SCI effects areas of the brain not directly impacted directly by SCI.Posted Question, Comment, Reply
Recent SCI trying to find out more.,Do you have any insurance? What state are you in (if you don't mind). Power mobility with tilt is quiet expensive. Sometimes you can find a used one or there are places where they are donated occasionally. There are some other work arounds occasionally but somewhat depends on where you are located.,I do not have any insurance, I didn't at the time of the accident either. I briefly had Medicaid for about 6 months until my eligibility status changed.

I live in Florida and there is a company called Marc's mobility within a reasonable distance from my house but I can't believe how much those chairs go for. I have a jazzy elite 14 that I managed to get for a fair price with new batteries. It works great other than constantly needing to have the joystick cleaned because it'll start slowing down after a week or two because it becomes less sensitive.